PENGUIN MODERN CLASSICS

Love in a Fallen City
Eileen  Chang  (1920-1995)  was  born  into  an  aristocratic  family  in
Shanghai. Her father, deeply traditional in his ways, was an opium addict;
her  mother,  partly  educated  in  England,  was  a  sophisticated  woman  of
cosmopolitan tastes. Their unhappy marriage ended in divorce, and Chang
eventually ran away from her father – who had beaten her for defying her
stepmother,  then  locked  her  in  her  room  for  nearly  half  a  year.  Chang
studied  literature  at  the  University  of  Hong  Kong,  but  the  Japanese  attack
on  the  city  in  1941  forced  her  to  return  to  occupied  Shanghai,  where  she
was able to publish the stories and essays that soon made her a literary star.
In 1944 Chang married Hu Lancheng, a Japanese sympathizer whose sexual
infidelities led to their divorce three years later. The rise of the communist
influence  made  it  increasingly  difficult  for  Chang  to  continue  living  in
Shanghai; she moved to Hong Kong in 1952, then immigrated to the United
States  three  years  later.  She  remarried  and  held  various  posts  as  writer  in
residence; in 1969 she obtained a more permanent position as a researcher
at  Berkeley.  Two  novels  both  commissioned  in  the  1950s  by  the  United
States information service as anti-communist propaganda, The Rice  Sprout
Song and Naked Earth, were  followed  by a third, The Rouge of  the  North
(1967), which expanded on her early novella, ‘The Golden Cangue’. Chang
continued  writing  essays  and  stories  in  Chinese,  scripts  for  Hong  Kong
films, and began work on an English translation of the famous Qing novel
The  Sing-Song  Girls  of  Shanghai.  In  spite  of  the  tremendous  revival  of
interest in her work that began in Taiwan and Hong Kong in the 1970s and
that later spread to mainland China, Chang became ever more reclusive as
she  grew  older.  Eileen  Chang  was  found  dead  in  her  Los  Angeles
Apartment  in  September  1999.  Her  novel  Eighteen  Springs,  never  before
translated into English, is forthcoming in Penguin Modern Classics.

Karen S. Kingsbury has lived in Chinese-speaking cities for nearly two
decades.  She  taught  English  in  Chonqing  on  the  Whitman-in-China
programme,  studied  Chinese  in  Taipei  and,  for  fourteen  years,  taught

English  Language  and  Literature  at  Tunghai  University  in  Taichung.  Her
Columbia doctoral dissertation was on Eileen Chang, and she has published
previous translations of Chang’s essays and fiction in Renditions and in The
Columbia Anthology of Modern Chinese Literature. She lives in Seattle.

LOVE IN A FALLEN CITY

and Other Stories

EILEEN CHANG

Translated by
KAREN S. KINGSBURY
and

EILEEN CHANG

PENGUIN BOOKS

PENGUIN CLASSICS

Published by the Penguin Group
Penguin Books Ltd, 80 Strand, London WC2R 0RL, England
Penguin  Group  (USA)  Inc.,  375  Hudson  Street,  New  York,  New  York

10014, USA

Penguin Group (Canada), 90 Eglinton Avenue East, Suite 700, Toronto,

Ontario, Canada M4P 2Y3 (a division of Pearson Penguin Canada Inc.)

Penguin Ireland, 25 St Stephen’s Green, Dublin 2, Ireland (a division of

Penguin Books Ltd)

Penguin  Group  (Australia),  250  Camberwell  Road,  Camberwell,

Victoria 3124, Australia (a division of Pearson Australia Group Pty Ltd)

Penguin Books India Pvt Ltd, 11 Community Centre, Panchsheel Park,

New Delhi – 110 017, India

Penguin  Group  (NZ),  67  Apollo  Drive,  Rosedale,  North  Shore  0632,

New Zealand (a division of Pearson New Zealand Ltd)

 
Penguin Books (South Africa) (Pty) Ltd, 24 Sturdee Avenue, Rosebank,

Johannesburg 2196, South Africa

Penguin Books Ltd, Registered Offices: 80 Strand, London WC2R 0RL,

England

www.penguin.com
This translation first published in the USA by New York Review 2007
Published in Penguin Modern Classics 2007
1
Copyright © by NYREV, Inc., 2007
Stories copyright © by the Estate of Eileen Chang, 1943, 1944, 1947
Translations  of  “Preface  to  the  Second  Printing  of  Romances,”
“Aloeswood  Incense:  The  First  Brazier,”  “Jasmine  Tea,”  and  “Red  Rose,
White  Rose”  copyright  ©  by  Karen  S.  Kingsbury,  2007.  Translation  of
“Love  in  a  Fallen  City”  copyright  ©  by  the  Chinese  University  of  Hong
Kong,  1996.  Translation  of  “Sealed  Off”  copyright  ©  by  Columbia
University Press, 1995
All rights reserved
The moral right of the translator has been asserted
“Love  in  a  Fallen  City”  has  appeared,  in  slightly  different  form,  in
Renditions:  A  Chinese–English  Translation  Magazine,  No.  45  (Spring
1996) and is reprinted by permission of Renditions. “The Golden Cangue”
has  appeared  in  Modern  Chinese  Stories  and  Novellas,  1919–1949,  eds.
Joseph  S.  M.  Lau,  C.  T.  Hsia,  and  Leo  Ou-fan  Lee  (Columbia  University
Press, 1981) and is reprinted by permission of C.T. Hsia. “Sealed Off” has
appeared, in slightly different form, in The Columbia Anthology of Modern
Chinese Literature, eds. Joseph S. M. Lau and Howard Goldblatt (Columbia
University  Press,  1995)  and  is  reprinted  by  permission  of  Columbia
University Press.

Except in the United States of America, this book is sold subject to the
condition  that  it  shall  not,  by  way  of  trade  or  otherwise,  be  lent,  re-sold,
hired  out,  or  otherwise  circulated  without  the  publisher’s  prior  consent  in
any  form  of  binding  or  cover  other  than  that  in  which  it  is  published  and
without  a  similar  condition  including  this  condition  being  imposed  on  the
subsequent purchaser

ISBN: 978-0-14-193007-7

Translator’s dedication
For C. T. Hsia

CONTENTS

INTRODUCTION
PREFACE TO THE SECOND PRINTING OF ROMANCES
ALOESWOOD INCENSE: THE FIRST BRAZIER
JASMINE TEA
LOVE IN A FALLEN CITY
THE GOLDEN CANGUE
SEALED OFF
RED ROSE, WHITE ROSE
NOTES

INTRODUCTION

EILEEN Chang was born in 1920 into a China wracked with instability.
The new Republic of China, under the nationalist leadership of Sun Yat-sen,
had  just  deposed  the  last  Confucian  dynasty  in  1911.  But  while  the  Qing
dynasty  had  ruled  for  nearly  three  hundred  years  (and  Confucian-style
governments  for  two  millennia),  the  Republican  government  was  to  be
deposed in less than forty years—pushed off the mainland, onto the island
of Taiwan, by the Communist revolution. In 1920, however, the chief threat
to the fledgling Republic came not from the Communists but from regional
warlords  who  resisted  the  authority  of  the  central  government.  Starting  in
the  late  1930s,  there  was  also  the  steady  encroachment  of  the  invading
Japanese.

In its first years, the Chinese Republic was marked internally by a New
Culture Movement that promoted modern (and more or less Western) forms

 
of  patriotism,  science,  and  individual  rights,  including  women’s  rights.  A
year and a half before Eileen Chang’s birth, the movement had taken to the
streets:  in  the  pivotal  May  Fourth  demonstrations,  outraged  students
protested the Western powers’ high-handed treatment of China at the close
of WWI (Japan’s occupation of Germany’s colonial territories in China was
sanctioned,  and  foreigners’  imperial  privileges  in  China  were  preserved).
Then  the  protests  widened  into  a  broad  critique  of  various  domestic  ills.
Many intellectuals felt that China’s military weakness was at root a cultural
problem:  effective  reform  would  have  to  be  directed  at  basic  habits  and
thinking.

These  huge  changes  were  emancipatory  for  broad  swathes  of  Chinese
society,  and  excruciating  to  others.  This  can  be  seen  from  Eileen  Chang’s
family story. Her family belonged to the late-Qing elite and had once been
quite  wealthy  and  powerful.  Her  paternal  great-grandfather  was  Li
Hongchang,  the  nineteenth-century  statesman  who  had  played  a  leading
role in the Qing dynasty’s drive to modernize, after the humiliating defeat it
had suffered in the Opium Wars. For his descendants, Li was the equivalent
of a famous and effective prime minister, not too far back in the family tree.
Chang’s  father,  however,  was  an  entirely  different  sort  of  aristocrat:  he
smoked opium, kept a fawning concubine, and, when his temper flared, beat
up  the  members  of  his  own  family,  especially  the  women.  This  happened
with fair regularity, since his wife and his sister, Eileen’s maiden aunt, were
daring and independent in the New Woman mode: they traveled to Europe
and  remained  there  for  several  years,  leaving  Eileen  and  her  younger
brother behind in the care of the family patriarch. Nonetheless, by the late
1920s, Chang’s mother had rejoined her family and was living with them in
a  Western-style  house  in  Shanghai.  Her  husband  overdosed  on  morphine,
and went to a hospital to recover his health, leaving her free to manage the
household  and  supervise  her  children’s  education.  “This  was  basically  the
only  time  in  my  life  when  I  enjoyed  the  lifestyle  of  a  Westernized  young
lady,” Chang wrote in her memoirs.1 There were lessons in art, music, and
English.  And  when  the  girl  was  enrolled  in  school,  her  mother  simply
transcribed her English name into Chinese—yielding a Chinese given name
with  a  slightly  foreign  and  (according  to  the  writer  herself)  pleasantly
awkward  feel.  But  after  her  father  returned  from  his  hospital  stay,  the
conflicts between the self-possessed, Westward-leaning mother and the self-
destructive, reactionary father proved irreconcilable: they divorced in 1930.

Chang’s family world was now ostensibly split in two— father’s dark,
smoky  lair;  mother’s  bright,  modern  apartment—  but  for  a  sensitive
teenager  this  was  not  a  simple  split.  Her  father’s  nostalgic  “afternoon”
world  was  subtly  appealing,  while  her  mother’s  brisk  coolness  could  be
altogether  alienating.  Still,  at  the  age  of  eighteen,  Chang  fled  her  father’s
house and sought refuge with her mother. She was making her escape after
a six month ordeal: she’d been brutally beaten by her father for impertinent
behavior  toward  her  stepmother  (who  indulged  her  father’s  habits),  then
confined to  her room  for  half  a year. Chang  contracted  dysentery, and her
father denied her medical treatment. In the throes of her illness, she suffered
lurid hallucinations.

In  1939,  some  eighteen  months  after  she’d  escaped  from  her  father’s
house,  Chang  enrolled  in  the  University  of  Hong  Kong  as  a  student  of
English literature. She had hoped to go to London, but wartime conditions
made  that  impossible.  War  broke  in  on  her  studies  anyway:  the  Japanese
invaded Hong Kong in December 1941, at the same time that they attacked
Pearl Harbor, and the university was shut down before she could complete
her  degree.  Chang  returned  to  Shanghai,  to  the  bright  little  apartment  in
which  her  aunt  and  mother  lived.  She’d  been  writing  for  some  years,  for
school  publications  and  the  like;  now  she  started  publishing  for  pay  in
Shanghai’s  newspapers  and  magazines,  first  in  English  and  then,  quite
spectacularly,  in  Chinese.  Shanghai  then—as  now—was  the  main  cultural
competitor  to  Beijing,  and  a  huge  gateway  for  new,  imported  ideas,
especially  in  the  realm  of  popular  and  middle-class  entertainment.  During
the Japanese occupation, however, the more intellectually ambitious writers
either left the city or simply refrained from publication. Chang stepped into
that  silence  like  a  diva  entering  the  limelight.  The  public  response  was
passionate —fulsomely so, the sober critic Fu Lei complained, before going
on to write a lengthy and careful consideration of all Chang’s work to date,
clearly  the  response  of  one  serious  writer  to  another.  She  had  already
published  a  dozen  stories  in  as  many  months,  five  of  them  ninety-page
novellas,  along  with  a  steady  stream  of  short,  scintillating  essays.  The
stories  were  eventually  collected  in  Romances  (1944;  revised  edition  in
1947) and the essays in Written on Water (1945).

Hu  Lancheng,  another  influential  man  of  letters,  was  so  impressed  by
Chang’s  work  (especially  “Sealed  Off,”  her  modernist  slice-of-life  anti-
romance)  that  he  looked  her  up,  swept  her  off  her  feet,  and  became  her

husband. It was a secret marriage, however, witnessed only by two friends,
because Hu Lancheng had served in the puppet government installed by the
Japanese,  and  the  political  situation  was  very  delicate.  After  the  Japanese
were defeated, Hu Lancheng was indeed branded as a traitor, and Chang too
was  viewed  with  suspicion,  even  though  their  pact  had  dissolved  in  less
than three years due to his sexual and emotional infidelities.

Hu  Lancheng  aside,  Chang’s  response  to  the  outburst  of  public
adulation was one of cool bemusement. She was a consummate performer,
appearing  in  startling  new  outfits  that  she  designed  herself,  alternately
cajoling  and  flattering  her  readers,  and  turning  out  page  after  page  of
hauntingly  precise,  achingly  beautiful  fiction.  She  offered  wry,  disturbing
insights  into  various  moral  and  mental  conundrums,  insights  that  were
partly based on Freudian ideas, but probably were more deeply influenced
by Chinese habits of thinking about human motives and manners—a subject
about  which  she  learned  much  from  traditional  drama  and  fiction.  That
grounding  in  older  art  was  an  essential  part  of  her  stylistic  brilliance:
Chang’s  great  achievement  was  to  meld  the  language  and  conventions  of
Qing  dynasty  vernacular  fiction  with  the  ironic,  worldly  stance  of
Edwardian British writers (there are several direct nods to H. G. Wells, and
many  echoes  of  Asian  travelers  like  Somerset  Maugham  and  Stella
Benson), then project her stories by means of a visual imagination that had
absorbed many scenes and techniques from the Hollywood films of her day.
The  result  was  a  rich,  flexible,  marvelously  apt  medium  for  exploring
middle-class  mentalities,  both  traditional  and  contemporary,  in  modern
Shanghai. Chang’s worldly form of the sublime was achieved, we may say,
by  viewing  her  father’s  world  from  her  mother’s  perspective,  but  with  an
artist’s compassionate detachment.

But  Chang’s  moment  of  fame  was  brief.  In  Japanese-occupied
Shanghai,  she  had  stayed  out  of  trouble  with  the  authorities,  and  gained
success  with  the  public,  by  focusing  on  current  manners  and  mores,
avoiding  any  mention  of  the  war  or  politics.  Surrounded  by  danger—she
knew at least one editor who was detained in an infamous prison, until Hu
Lancheng intervened and obtained his release—she masqueraded as a light,
unserious  writer.  Following  the  Japanese  defeat,  this  stance  made  her
vulnerable, especially to criticism from the socialist left. In any case, given
Chang’s family background, it is unlikely that any stance of hers could have
rendered her innocuous in the Communist Party’s eyes. She was too clearly

a product of the privileged elite, even if now she had no financial resources
beyond  her  meager  earnings  as  a  writer.  The  pressures  in  Shanghai  grew,
and in 1952, Chang fled to Hong Kong, where eventually she accepted a job
as a translator and fiction writer for the United States Information Service.
Propaganda  was  not  her  preferred  form  of  literature,  but  she  managed  to
write  a  pair  of  nuanced  and  complex  “anti-Communist”  novels:  The  Rice
Sprout  Song  and  Naked  Earth.  In  1955,  she  was  awarded  entry  into  the
United States.

Chang  was  thirty-two  when  she  left  her  beloved  Shanghai  for  the  last
time.  For  the  following  three  decades,  she  was  a  banned  writer  in  her
homeland, though still much loved by loyal readers in Hong Kong, Taiwan,
and  the  overseas  Chinese  communities.  She  tried,  with  little  success,  to
break  into  the  English-language  fiction  market,  most  notably  with  The
Rouge  of  the  North,  a  reworked  version  of  her  celebrated  novella  “The
Golden  Cangue.”  But  the  cultural  and  linguistic  gaps  were  too  wide  to
cross.  As  C.  T.  Hsia,  one  of  her  earliest  and  most  perceptive  advocates,
remarked (in A History of Modern Chinese Fiction), mid-century American
readers’  views  of  China  were  greatly  influenced  by  writers  like  Pearl  S.
Buck, which left them unprepared for Chang’s melancholy incisiveness and
insider’s perspective.

Shortly  after  arriving  in  the  United  States,  Chang  met  and  married  a
minor American playwright and novelist, Ferdinand Reyher, and the two of
them  traveled  from  one  temporary  residence  to  another.  Reyher  died  in
1967,  and  over  the  next  three  decades  Chang  retreated  into  deepening
seclusion,  but  never  stopped  writing.  Working  mostly  through  her  Taiwan
publisher,  she  kept  turning  out  essays,  translations,  film  scripts,  and,  less
frequently, new fiction.

During the last years of her life, while Chang was shunning visitors and
even old friends, a “Chang craze” was starting to build not just in Taiwan
and Hong Kong but in the liberalizing People’s Republic of China, too. The
news of her death—alone in a scantily furnished Los Angeles apartment, in
September  of  1995—was  a  major  media  event,  and  prompted  a  flood  of
reappraisals,  adaptations,  and  biographical  speculations.  It  was  as  if
Chinese  readers  were  trying  to  make  up  for  the  decades  of  neglect  that
Chang had suffered since the 1940s. The “craze” continues throughout the
Chinese-speaking  world,  and  Eileen  Chang’s  place  in  the  pantheon  of
modern  writers  is  now  firmly  assured.  If  American  readers  are  just  now

beginning  to  hear  of  this  literary  star  who  lived  half  of  her  life  in  deep
obscurity, we can easily attribute this fact to Chang’s own shyness, and to
the political circumstances of her career.

The  four  novellas  that  form  the  core  of  this  collection  are  the  most
sustained  and  widely  acclaimed  efforts  in  Chang’s  first  volume  of  fiction,
Chuanqi.  (I’ve  followed  the  usual  translation,  “Romances,”  but  the  title
could  easily  be  rendered  instead  as  “Legends,”  very  much  in  the  sense  of
“urban  legends”).  Many  readers  feel  this  is  the  point  at  which  Chang’s
talent  shone  most  brightly;  it  is  at  any  rate  the  period  for  which  she  has
become a cultural icon. The choice of shorter works was not so simple, as
there are many of great interest. In the end I chose two, “Jasmine Tea” and
“Sealed  Off,”  that  seem  to  me  to  make  transitions  between,  and  serve  as
complements  to,  the  novellas.  Two  other  important  stories,  “Traces  of
Love”  and  “Steamed  Osamanthus  Flower,”  could  have  come  after  “Red
Rose, White Rose,” both logically and chronologically, but fortunately they
have already been published in Traces of Love and Other Stories, edited by
Eva Hung.

Dr. Hung was the first editor of my Chang translations during her tenure
as editor of Renditions, the Chinese University of Hong Kong’s translation
magazine. I am grateful for her early guidance through that infinite number
of small difficulties that are the art and essence of translation, and hope that
she  will  approve  of  the  changes  I  have  made  to  “Love  in  a  Fallen  City”
since she first published it. Fortunately—and thanks to C.T. Hsia—we have
here Chang’s own fine translation of “The Golden Cangue” to help us hear
how  the  author  herself  thought  it  should  appear  in  English.  If  the  reader
finds that the timbre of that story is different from that in my translations, in
ways  that  go  beyond  dialect  difference  (British  or  Hong  Kong  versus
American  English),  this  probably  is  because  I’ve  pushed  hard  at
commonplace  idioms  and  metaphors,  trying  to  find  lively  equivalents
instead  of  letting  them  dissolve  unobtrusively,  as  could  well  happen  in  a
skilled  Chinese  reader’s  mind.  My  excuse  for  this  is  that  my  Taiwanese
students  have  often  told  me  that  Chang’s  Chinese  is  not  easy  for  them  to
understand—  they  belong,  after  all,  to  the  full-fledged  multimedia  age,
while Chang grew up in a world that was still deeply focused on books and
writing.  It  seems  to  me  that  if  Chang  is  tantalizing  but  tough  for  young
Chinese  readers  today,  a  translator  ought  to  err  on  the  side  of  “over-
translation,”  even  though  Chang  herself  (perhaps  because  translation  was

not her favorite mode of writing) rendered “The Golden Cangue” in fairly
plain, understated English.

Another translator whose work has been of great use to me is Carolyn
Thompson  Brown;  her  strong,  spare  version  of  “Red  Rose,  White  Rose”
(which  she  entitled  “Red  Rose  and  White  Rose”)  can  be  found  in  her
American University dissertation on the novella. Still, my deepest debts are
to  the  many  readers  whose  mindful  attention  to  early  drafts  helped  me
improve,  step  by  tiny  step:  Deirdre  Sabina  Knight,  Kailin  Wu,  Tarn  Pak
Shan,  Joy  Chen,  Shuchin  Lin,  Sarah  Dettwiler,  an  anonymous  reviewer,
and,  most  of  all,  Edwin  Frank.  To  none  of  them,  of  course,  should  the
remaining errors and infelicities be attributed.

Beyond  and  between  all  the  details  that  these  readers  and  I  have
wrestled with, these translations are but one reader’s attempt to articulate at
least  some  part  of  the  psychological  and  sensory  experience  that  Eileen
Chang’s  fiction  has  provoked  in  her  mind  and,  judging  from  various
sources,  those  of many  Chinese  readers.  Thus, these  translations grow  out
of  the  central  conviction  that  Chang’s  melding  of  Qing  and  Edwardian,
patriarchal  and  feminist,  past  and  present  offers  her  readers  a  nuanced,
historicized  view  of  their  own  cultural  moment,  in  all  its  singularity  and
repetitiveness. Like the moon and the mirrors which figure so prominently
in her work, Chang’s stories themselves are a succession of echoes, or the
infinite  series  produced  by  a  three-way  mirror,  recalling  and  restoring  an
ancient,  anterior  sense  of  selfhood  in  the  midst  of  modernist,  wartime
rupture  and  dislocation.  Even  if  our  times  are  different  now  (and  I’m  not
sure that they are), a vision like this is both unsettling and satisfying.

—KAREN S. KINGSBURY

PREFACE 

THE 
PRINTING OF ROMANCES

TO 

SECOND

WHEN MY book comes out—I’d long said to myself—I’ll go around to
all the bookstalls just to have a look. I want that turquoise book-cover that I
like  so  much  to  open  up,  in  every  bookstall,  a  small  window  of  midnight
blue;  in  that  window,  people  might  see  the  moon,  or  watch  some  bit  of
noisy  human  activity.  I  want  to  ask  the  bookseller,  feigning  nonchalance:
“So,  how  are  sales?  The  price  is  way  too  high!  At  such  a  price,  are  there
really any buyers?”

Ah,  indeed—get  your  fame  early  in  the  game!  Get  it  late,  and  the
pleasure’s lost its punch. That first time, when two of my compositions got
published in the school magazine, I was elated. I read them again and again,
beginning to end, each time as if I’d never before seen them. It’s not easy
now for me to get so excited. I have to hurry: faster, faster, or it’ll be too
late!

Even if I could wait, our whole era is being pushed onward, is breaking
apart already, with greater destruction still coming. Our entire civilization—
with  all  its  magnificence,  and  its  insignificance—will  someday  belong  to
the past. If the word I use most often is “desolate,” it’s because I feel, in the
back of my mind, this staggering threat.

Here in Shanghai, “Hop-Hop” folk opera is considered quite passe, and
so,  even  though  I’d  long  wanted  to  see  a  show,  I  had  trouble  finding  the
right  person  to  ask along.  Putting  the  word  out,  letting  others know I  was
eager  to  see  this  kind  of  rickety-rackety,  low-class  stuff,  was  a  bit
embarrassing.  But  recently  I  found  a  lady,  none  of  whose  relatives  would
brave the summer heat with her to see Zhu Baoxia, and the two of us went
off together.

When the huqin player scraped bow on string, the sound was strangely
painful:  it  was  a  sky-high  tune,  urgent  like  the  wind,  sibilant  and  sliding.
The  world  was  dark  and  ominous,  the  universe  wide  and  wild.  The  wind
went  screeching  through  the  desert  passes,  nowhere  to  stop,  nowhere  to
stay: emptiness itself is chasing me, it wailed. A man in a blue gown beat
the rhythm out with strong blows of a big bamboo stick: kua! kua! kua! He
came out to stage-front, close to the audience, and pushed the singer hard.
Kua! ke-jia! ke-jia!—the pitiless pounding went on and on.

 
I  was  in  the  second  row,  jolted  till  my  head  was  spinning,  my  eyes
glazed over. Bit by bit, the contents of my brain were pounded out, till only
the  most  primitive  things  remained.  In  those  cold  caves  of  the  northwest,
people have to live very simply, and even then it’s not easy to get by.

Back onstage, human voices struggled hoarsely with the rattle’s metallic
clatter and the huqin’s astringent tune. Third Daughter Li was played by a
northern girl with a bare, yellow face; no powder, just two long eyebrows
painted  black.  She  was  headed  toward  the  well,  buckets  on  her  shoulder-
pole, when the bitter complaint rose up inside her. “Cannot be compared to
Third Sister Wang, but even so…” Eyes fixed on the ground, she belted out
each word and phrase.

Just as she was drawing water, “astride his steed, a brave young general
appeared.”  It  was  her  son,  but,  meeting  by  chance,  they  didn’t  recognize
each  other.  Eventually,  the  young  general  began  to  wonder  if  this  “poor
peasant”  might  be  his  mother,  so  he  asked  about  her  family.  “What  was
your father’s name? Who was your mother? Your brother?” She answered
all of his questions, stretching “my” into “maah,” and knew all the details of
even her sister-in-law’s life history: Maah brother’s wife’s from the Zhang
family…”

The  outside  world,  for  those  who  live  in  the  yellow-earth  caves,  is  a
perpetual  dusk  of  flying  sand  and  rolling  rock.  Existence,  shrunk  by  the
cold,  comes  down  to  this:  who  your  father  is,  who  your  mother  is,  your
brother, his wife. There isn’t much to remember, so memory holds on hard.
Before the main performance, there was a “murdered-her-own-husband”
farce.  Two  great  swathes  of  rouge  had  been  painted  down  the  wanton
woman’s face. Even the flanks of her nose were rouged, leaving only a thin
center-line of nose to be powdered white. This made a high, thin, Grecian-
style nose, which did not sit well on a big, broad face; the glistening eyes
seemed to grow one to a side, close to the ears, like an animal’s. She also
had gold teeth, a pair of greasy braids that hung down to her knees, and fat,
round, dusky yellow forearms that stuck out from pink jacket-sleeves.

When the ghost of her wronged husband came to lodge his complaint,
an official in a sedan-chair was told that “a dust devil is blocking our path.”
“Male  or  female?”  the  official  asked.  The  bailiff  took  a  careful  look.
“Male.” The official gave the order to “follow that dust devil, and make no
mistake.”  They  followed  the  ghost  to  a  fresh  grave-site,  then  seized  the
young  widow  they  found  there.  The  widow  knelt  and  explained  how  her

husband, one night, suddenly dropped dead. She phrased it a hundred ways,
but the official still didn’t get it. “Your lordship!” she bellowed, “Where is
there a stove-bed with no fire burning? Where is there a chimney-flue with
no smoke rising?” The audience cheered wildly.

In  the  savage  wilderness,  the  woman  who  comes  to  power  is  not,  as
most  people  imagine,  a  wild  rose  with  big,  black,  burning  eyes,  stronger
than  a  man,  whip  in  hand,  ready  to  strike  at  any  moment.  That’s  just  a
fantasy made up by city-folk in need of new stimulation. In the wilderness
that  is  coming,  among  the  shards  and  rubble,  only  the  painted-lady  type
from “Hop-Hop” opera, this kind of woman, can carry on with simple ease.
Her home is everywhere, in any era, any society.

So  I  feel  an  aching  sadness.  I  often  think  about  all  of  this,  perhaps
because of H. G. Wells’s predictions. It all used to seem far away, and now
it seems not far at all. But it is autumn still, water-clear and mirror-bright: I
ought be happy.

September 1944

ALOESWOOD INCENSE

The First Brazier
GO  AND  fetch,  will  you  please,  a  copper  incense  brazier,  a  family
heirloom gorgeously encrusted now with moldy green, and light in it some
pungent  chips  of  aloeswood.  Listen  while  I  tell  a  Hong  Kong  tale,  from
before  the  war.  When  your  incense  has  burned  out,  my  story  too  will  be
over.

The  story  starts  with  Ge  Weilong,  a  very  ordinary  Shanghai  girl,
standing  on  the  veranda  of  a  hillside  mansion  and  gazing  vacantly  at  the
garden. Although Weilong had lived in Hong Kong for two years now, she
was still unfamiliar with this wealthy residential district in the Hong Kong
hills: this was her first visit to her aunt’s house. The garden itself was little
more  than  a  rectangular  grass  lawn,  framed  by  a  low  wall  of  white,
swastika-shaped blocks, beyond which lay a stretch of rough hillside. This
garden  was  like  a  gold-lacquered  serving  tray  lifted  high  amid  the  wild
hills: one row of carefully pruned evergreens; two beds of fine, well-spaced

English  roses—the  whole  arrangement  severely  perfect,  not  a  hair  out  of
place,  as  if  the  tray  had  been  deftly  adorned  with  a  lavish  painting  in  the
fine-line style. In one corner of the lawn, a small azalea was in flower, its
pink petals, touched with yellow, a bright shrimp-pink.

Still, inside that wall, spring was only puttering about. When it flashed
into  flame,  it  could  leap  out,  scorching  everything.  Already,  beyond  the
wall,  a  roar  of  wild  azaleas  was  blooming  across  the  hill,  the  fiery  red
stomping through brittle grass, blazing down the mountainside.

On the far side of the azaleas lay the deep blue sea, with big white boats

bobbing in it.

But these glaring color clashes were not the only reason why the viewer
felt such a dizzying sense of unreality. There were contrasts everywhere: all
kinds of discordant settings and jumbled periods had been jammed together,
making a strange, illusory domain.

the 

traditional  glazed 

The  white  house  in  the  dip  of  the  hills  was  smooth  and  streamlined—
geometric  like  an  ultramodern  movie  theater.  The  roof,  however,  was
covered  with 
tiles  of  emerald  green.  The
windowpanes  were  also  green,  their  chicken-fat  yellow  frames  trimmed
with  red;  the  window  grates,  with  their  fancy  ironwork,  had  been  sprayed
the  same  chicken-fat  yellow.  A  wide,  red  brick  veranda  circled  the  house,
with monumental white stone columns that were nearly thirty feet tall—this
went back to the American Old South.

From the veranda, glass doors opened onto a living room. The furniture
and  the  arrangement  were  basically  Western,  touched  up  with  some
unexceptionable  Chinese  bric-a-brac.  An  ivory  bodhisattva  stood  on  the
mantel  of  the  fireplace,  along  with  snuff  bottles  made  of  emerald-green
jade;  a  small  screen  with  a  bamboo  motif  curved  around  the  sofa.  These
Oriental  touches  had  been  put  there,  it  was  clear,  for  the  benefit  of
foreigners.  The  English  come  from  so  far  to  see  China—one  has  to  give
them something of China to see. But this was China as Westerners imagine
it: exquisite, illogical, very entertaining.

Weilong  glanced  at  her  reflection  in  the  glass  doors—she  too  was  a
touch of typically colonial Oriental color. She wore the special uniform of
Nanying Secondary School: a dark blue starched cotton tunic that reached
to  her  knees,  over  narrow  trousers,  all  in  the  late  Qing  style.  Decking  out
coeds  in  the  manner  of  Boxer-era  courtesans—that  was  only  one  of  the
ways that the Hong Kong of the day tried to please European and American

tourists.  But  Weilong,  like  any  girl,  sought  to  be  stylish,  and  she  wore  a
small  knitted  vest  on  top  of  the  tunic.  Under  that  little  vest,  the  tunic
stretched down a long way—the effect, in the end, was unclassifiable.

Facing  the  glass  doors,  Weilong  straightened  her  collar  and  smoothed
her hair. She had a small, round face, bland but pretty, a “powder-puff face”
that would be considered old-fashioned nowadays. Her eyes were long and
lovely; the fine creases over the lids swept out almost to her hairline. Her
nose was delicate and thin, her little mouth plump and round. Her face may
have  been  somewhat  lacking  in  expression,  but  vacuousness  of  that  sort
does  impart  the  gentle  sincerity  that  one  associates  with  Old  China.  Once
she’d  been  quite  dissatisfied  with  her  white  skin;  she’d  wanted  a  tan,  to
match the new ideal of healthy beauty. But when she got to Hong Kong she
found  that  the  Cantonese  beauties  generally  had  olive  complexions.
Scarcity pushes value up: at Nanying Secondary, her white skin had earned
her an untold number of admirers. One time somebody made a wisecrack,
saying  that  if  girls  from  Canton  and  Hunan,  with  their  deep-set  eyes  and
high  cheeks,  were  sweet-and-sour  pork  bones,  then  Shanghai  girls  were
flour-dipped pork dim sum—an “ill-bred remark” that popped into her mind
just as she was appraising her looks. Weilong frowned, turned around, and
leaned back against the glass door.

Her  aunt’s  housemaids  seemed  full  of  mischief—the  sweet-and-sour
type. They were jaunty, clopping back and forth on the veranda in wooden
clogs. Just then, one of them called out sweetly: “Glance, who’s that in the
living room?”

“I think it’s someone from Young Mistress’s family.”
Judging  from  her  voice,  Glance  was  the  one  who’d  poured  tea  for
Weilong—a long face and a water-snake waist, and though she wore a braid
down  her  back  like  the  others,  her  bangs  fell  loosely  forward.  Something
was  bothering  Weilong.  Who  was  this  “Young  Mistress”?  Weilong  had
never heard anything about her aunt having a son, so how could there be a
daughter-in-law? Could it be Aunt Liang herself? Weilong’s father had had
a  terrible  row  with  his  sister  when  she  became  third  concubine  to  Liang
Liteng,  a  Cantonese  tycoon;  ever  since  then,  the  family  had  severed
relations with Aunt Liang. All that had happened before Weilong was born,
but she knew that her aunt was two years older than her father, and had to
be over fifty  now. How  could  she still  be a “Young  Mistress”? Could this
maid be a longtime retainer who’d served her aunt for many years, and had

grown  used  to  calling  her  that?  Weilong  was  mulling  this  over,  when  she
heard Glance’s voice again.

“It’s not often that our Young Mistress gets up so early!”
“It’s  Thirteenth  Young  Master  from  the  Qiao  family,  that  little  devil,

said he’d take her to Tsim Sha Tsui for a swim!”

Glance let out a little gasp. “In that case, I don’t know when she’ll be

back.”

“Naturally.  After  they’ve  gone  swimming  they’ll  go  to  the  Lido  Hotel
for  dinner,  then  go  dancing.  This  morning,  before  daybreak,  she  had  me
pack up evening wear and dress shoes to change into later.”

Glance tittered. “That Qiao fellow! He’s enough to make a person sick!
I thought Young Mistress had given up on him. How can someone as smart
as she is still be in his grip?”

“Hush!  Hush!”  the  other  one  said.  “Don’t  prattle  on,  there’s  someone

inside.”

“Tell her to go,” Glance said. “Asking people to wait around for nothing

isn’t very nice.”

“Who  cares?  You  said  she’s  a  relative  of  Young  Mistress,  so  she’s

probably come for a handout. We can’t offer that much hospitality!”

Glance was silent for quite some time. Then, in an undertone, she said,

“Better send her off. The Russian piano tuner is coming soon.”

As soon as she heard this, the other girl started to laugh. “Oh,” she said,
clapping  her  hands,  “you  want  to  commandeer  this  room  so  that  you  and
that Alexander Alexandrei can fool around! Here I was wondering why you
were suddenly so pious and good, not wanting our guest to wait around for
nothing. Now I know why!”

Glance  chased  after  the  other  girl  and  struck  her;  a  scuffle  broke  out.
“Gentlemen  use  words,  only  scoundrels  use  their  fists!”  the  other  girl
shrieked.

“True  enough,”  Glance  yelled  back,  “but  only  a  hussy  kicks!  Hussy!

Tarty toes! You do have tarty toes!”

Just  then,  a  darling  little  wooden  clog,  with  a  painted  spray  of  golden
plum  blossoms  on  a  bright  red  background,  skimmed  through  the  air  and
smacked Weilong right in the knee; she had to bend over and rub the spot, it
hurt so much. When she looked up, a winsome little dark-skinned maid had
come bouncing into the room, knees and elbows lifted high; the girl skipped

up to the clog, slipped it on, then turned and strode away, entirely ignoring
Weilong.

Weilong  couldn’t  help  but  be  angry.  Then  she  remembered  “The  King
of  Hell  is  a  gentleman,  but  the  little  devils  are  pests”  and  “When  you  go
under another’s roof, how can you avoid bowing?” That was the rub, when
you had a favor to ask. Still, judging from the looks of things, there wasn’t
much  hope  today—why  hang  around,  inviting  this  sort  of  treatment?  But,
she thought, here I’ve climbed all the way up this mountain, after telling a
lie so I could get out of school—how can I get another day off tomorrow?
Besides, who knows if my aunt will be home tomorrow. And I can’t simply
phone up and make an appointment—not for something like this!

She hesitated. May as well leave, she decided at last. Going through the
glass doors, she found Glance leaning sideways against a stone column, the
bottoms  of her trousers  rolled  up so she could  pound on her calf with  her
fist; there was still a red mark where she’d been kicked. The dark-skinned
girl peeked out from the end of the veranda, then ran off quickly.

“Glint,  don’t  run  away!”  Glance  called  out.  “I’m  going  to  pay  you

back!”

Glint  laughed  from  a  distance.  “What  makes  you  think  I  have  time  to
tangle  with  you?  You  want  to  slap  and  kick,  well,  wait  till  that  Russian
fellow comes—he’ll be happy to slap and kick with you!”

Glance  muttered  under  her  breath,  calling  Glint  a  slippery-tongued
scamp, but still she had to laugh. Then she looked around and saw Weilong.
“You’re not leaving, are you?” she asked.

Weilong smiled and nodded. “I have to go now, I’ll come again another

time. Could you see me to the gate?”

They cut across the lawn, taking a shortcut to a little green-painted iron
gate. In Hong Kong, to escape the damp, rich people build their houses high
off the ground, on stone foundations of some thirty or forty feet; from the
gate,  a  winding  flight  of  steps  led  down  to  the  road.  Glance  was  just
opening the latch when a car horn sounded from below. Glint popped out of
nowhere.  Elbowing  her way  past  Glance and Weilong, she clattered  down
the stairs, shouting all the while, “Young Mistress is back! Young Mistress
is back!”

Glance  shrugged  and  smirked.  “Such  a  little  thing,  is  it  really  worth
flinging yourself around, just to get first prize? We’re all mere servants, but

I  can’t  get  used  to  the  way  some  people  degrade  themselves!”  She  turned
and went back in.

Weilong  was  left  alone  at  the  iron  gate,  staring  blankly.  Glint’s  crazy
haste  had  jangled  her  nerves.  The  car  door  opened  and  a  small,  slender
woman in Western clothes stepped out. She was dressed all in black, with a
green veil hanging from her black straw hat. Pinned to the veil, an emerald
spider  the  size  of  a  fingernail  flashed  in  the  sunlight  and  climbed  up  her
cheek.  When  it  gleamed  it  looked  like  a  trembling  teardrop  that  was  just
about to fall; when it darkened it looked like a green mole. The veil, several
feet long, was wrapped around her shoulders like a scarf, and it floated and
fluttered about her. The driver couldn’t be seen clearly, but he seemed to be
a  young  man.  He  leaned  his  head  out  to  say  good-bye,  but  the  woman
stiffened her neck and headed up the stairs.

Glint had already rushed in with a greeting, her face wreathed in smiles:

“Won’t Thirteenth Master Qiao come up to have a glass of beer?”

“Who has time to waste on his little games?”
Hearing this, Glint quickly put her smiles away. She took the woman’s
small rattan suitcase. “You must be tired!” she said softly. “Coming back so
early!”

The woman turned and found that the car was leaving. She spat hard at

the ground. “Go on then, and don’t come back! We’re finished!”

Realizing  that  her  mistress  was  in  a  fury,  Glint  kept  quiet  now.  The
woman  glared  at  her,  consumed  by  her  own  thoughts,  not  deigning  to
disclose her complaint to the girl. Then, with a bitter snort, she snapped out
of  it.  “Listen  to  this,  Glint.  He  begs  me  to  go  to  the  beach  early  in  the
morning—a  pretext,  as  it  turns  out.  He  wants  a  date  with  Mary  Zhao,  but
those Cantonese are straitlaced and he thought her father wouldn’t allow it.
If someone older were there to keep an eye on things then the Zhao family’s
precious  jewel  would  be  protected  by  a  safety  charm.  That  was  his  little
scheme—how very kind of him to let me in on it too!”

Glint stamped and sighed, cursing Qiao.
The  woman  paid  no  attention.  She  paused  to  catch  her  breath  before
continuing:  “This  certainly  isn’t  the  first  time  I’ve  taken  the  lid  off
somebody’s little secret. So, Mr. Qiao, you don’t explain what’s going on,
you  think  you  can  make  a  fool  of  me.  Well,  I’ve  seen  plenty  of  men,  and
anyone  who’s  got  his  eye  on  me  can’t  be  eyeing  someone  else  too.  Go
ahead, sing that love scene from the opera about lovers meeting secretly in

the rear garden—but I’m not playing the nurse! When I go to a banquet, I’m
not the second-class guest! Qiao, you little half-breed, your father may have
bootlicked till the British gave him a garter, but your mother’s a Portuguese
whore from who knows where, a poker-chip girl from the Macao casinos.
You monkey-chops, brazen as the sky is wide, gamboling about like a devil,
and  right  in  my  face!”  She  yanked  the  veil  around  behind  her  hat  and
headed up the stairs, ticking off his offenses as she went.

Now Weilong could see her face. She really was an older woman. There
was a green-blue tinge to her white skin, and she wore purple-black lipstick,
the “mulberry red” that was the latest thing from Paris. Weilong recognized
those  deceptively  drowsy  eyes;  in  her  father’s  photo  album,  there  was  a
family portrait, yellow with age, that showed those very eyes. A beauty may
age, but her eyes do not. Weilong grew flustered: she felt her cheeks getting
hot. She heard Glint, who was still following her aunt, say, “Qiao is quite a
rascal, but he can’t pull one over on you. You didn’t really go with him to
pick up Miss Zhao, did you?”

At this, the woman’s eyebrows flew upward, and her face quivered. “Do
you actually think I’m such an idiot? When he raised the idea, there in the
car, I said, ‘Fine, let’s go pick her up, but three’s a crowd, so you’d better
get someone else to come along too.’ He said fine, but he wanted to pick up
Miss Zhao first, and then invite another person—of course, he didn’t want
Mr. Zhao seeing two couples and getting suspicious. So I said, ‘How about
no fuss at all, just simple, like leading a goat: we can invite Mr. Zhao, won’t
that be nice? I can’t swim, and he can’t either, so we’ll lie on the sand and
sunbathe  side  by  side.’  He  was  quiet  for  a  long  time,  but  at  last  he  said,
‘Forget  it!  It’ll  be  simpler  if  the  two  of  us  go  on  our  own.’  ‘Oh,’  I  said,
‘what’s  the  matter?’  He  just  drove  on,  not  saying  a  word.  I  waited  till  we
were almost to Tsim Sha Tsui, and then said I felt faint in the heat. He was
riled  up,  but  I  made  him  drive  me  all  the  way  back.  He  was  worn  out,
covered with sweat, but when he wanted to stop for a soda, I wouldn’t let
him—I did feel a bit better then!”

“Terrific!”  said  Glint,  clapping  her  hands.  “Young  Mistress  fixed  him,
that’s for sure! There’s only one thing—I assume he’s no longer invited to
tomorrow’s party, but should we invite someone else in his place? Awaiting
your orders, ma’am.”

Cocking  her  head  to  one  side,  Aunt  Liang  thought  it  over.  “Who  to
invite?  Those  British  officers  only  come  for  the  drinks—they  haven’t  got

any self-control, and just get soused. Oh, that’s right! Help me remember—
that army lieutenant, he shouldn’t be let in again. He got drunk and chased
Glance all over. No manners at all!”

Glint agreed, smiling.
“Has Sir Cheng Qiao telephoned?”
Glint shook her head. “I can’t understand it. Before, when Master was
still with us, the Qiao men, young and old, would phone up every day, full
of  schemes  and  ideas,  causing  all  sorts  of  trouble  for  Young  Mistress  and
scaring  the  servants  to  death—we  were  so  afraid  that  Master  would  find
out.  But  now  that  Young  Mistress’s  friends  can  come  in  through  the  front
door, they’re suddenly too high and mighty!”

“What’s so hard to understand? It’s just their thievish way! It has to be

sneaky, or else it’s no fun!”

“When Young Mistress gets married again, and to the right man, they’ll

feel it, that’s for sure!”

“Bah!  Talking  foolishness  again.  Let  me  tell  you—”  But  then  she
stopped, having reached the top of the stairs and found, at the iron gate, an
unknown face.

“Aunt,” said Weilong, stepping forward bravely.
Madame Liang thrust her chin out and squinted at Weilong.
“Aunt,” Weilong explained, “I’m the daughter of Ge Yukun.”
“Is Ge Yukun dead?” her aunt snapped.
“My father, I’m happy to say, is quite well.”
“Does he know that you have come to see me?”
Weilong didn’t answer right away.
“Please leave at once,” said Madame Liang. “If he hears of this, he’ll be

very upset! This is no place for you, you’ll only sully your good name!”

Weilong responded as pleasantly as she could. “Of course Aunt is angry
—here we’ve been in Hong Kong a long time, and haven’t come to pay our
respects. It’s all our fault!”

“Oh,  so  you’ve  come  today  just  to  pay  your  respects!  I  guess  I’m  too
suspicious, thinking that no one climbs a jeweled staircase without reason,
and that there must be something you want from me. As I’ve said before,
when  Ge  Yukun  reaches  his  end,  I’ll  be  good  and  buy  him  a  coffin.  But
while he’s still alive, he’s not getting a penny!”

Madame Liang thrust deep and hard. Weilong was too soft and young, it
was too much for her. She’d put on a big, broad smile; now the smile was

frozen stiff.

Glint  couldn’t  bear  seeing  Weilong  paralyzed  with  embarrassment.
“She’s not said anything yet—why does Young Mistress think she’s here to
borrow money? Of course, as the old saying goes, ‘Bit by a snake, scared
by a rope, three years later.’ Let me explain, Miss Ge. Here in this house we
get  distant  relatives  and  former  neighbors  streaming  in  all  year  round,
asking for so many favors that Young Mistress is now thoroughly alarmed.
Don’t be angry, Miss. You’ve come a long way to see your aunt—you two
should have a nice chat before you go. Come inside and sit for a while. Let
our Young Mistress rest up a bit. I’ll call you when she feels better.”

“So  here  you  are,  slave,  making  polite  excuses!”  Madame  said  coolly.

“Stop meddling! Must be quite some tip you got from her!”

“What!”  Glint  protested.  “As  if  I’d  never  seen  money  before!  Judging
from the looks of this young lady, she’s not a big spender—I doubt she’s got
enough to buy me!”

Glint’s  intercession  had  been  well-intentioned,  but  this  last  sentiment
was  hard  for  Weilong  to  take.  Still  wearing  her  forced  smile,  she  flushed
and then grew pale. Her feelings were in a tumult.

Leaning  over,  Glint  whispered  in  Madame  Liang’s  ear:  “Young
Mistress,  you  always  forget.  Dr.  Feng  at  the  beauty  salon  told  you  not  to
frown; you’ll get wrinkles around your eyes.”

When Madame Liang heard this, she smoothed her face into a pleasant

expression.

“Standing in the hot sun like this,” Glint went on, “you’ll get freckles if
you don’t watch out!” With that, she talked Madame Liang into entering the
house.

Weilong stood dazed and alone in the sun. Her cheeks were burning, but
the two tears that rolled down her face were cold, chilling her to the bone.
Wiping her face with the back of her hand, she walked slowly, unwillingly,
through  the  passageway  and  into  the  living  room,  where  she  sat  down.
“Aunt doesn’t have a very good reputation,” she said to herself. “I always
thought  it  was  because  people  will  gossip  maliciously  about  a  widow,
especially since Liang Liteng was one of Hong Kong’s wealthiest men and
he  left  Aunt,  who  was  his  favorite,  a  lot  of  money,  not  to  mention  the
property.  Of  course  there  would  be  plenty  of  people  too  jealous  to  say
anything good about her. But now it looks as if all their talk is true! Here I
am  wading  into  muddy  waters,  and  for  a  girl  there’s  no  way  to  get  clean

again, not even if she throws herself into the Yellow River. I should give up,
and try to think of something else. But I’ve put up with so much already—
and now it’s all for nothing!” When she thought back over everything, she
felt heartsick again.

The Ges were only a middle-class family, but Weilong had always been
pampered—she’d never faced such a fierce attack before. Naturally she was
quite hurt. From another room, she could just make out the sound of a loud
argument going on, then the slam of a door, and someone sobbing bitterly.
A  junior  maid  came  into  the  living  room  to  clear  away  the  empty  teacup;
another girl in evident distress followed behind. She tugged at the first girl’s
sleeve. “Who made Young Mistress so angry?” she asked.

“Glance is the one who’s in trouble,” said the other, with a smile. “Why

are you so upset?”

“How did it get found out?”
“I’m  not  sure,”  the  first  girl  said.  “She  invited  Sir  Cheng  Qiao  but  he
didn’t accept. Then she found out that Glance has gone out several times to
see him. Of course he’d rather have her go out to him—that way, his time’s
not wasted on pointless visits here.”

Although they spoke in undertones, Weilong caught about half of it. The

girls cleared the tea things and went out.

Looking  up,  Weilong  noticed  a  prickly  pear  in  a  blue  ceramic  dish  on
top  of  the  piano.  It  was  budding,  and  the  thick  blue-green  leaves  pressed
upward on all sides like a nest of green snakes; the red tinge at the tip of the
leaves looked like snake tongues. Behind the plant, a curtain shifted: Glint
emerged  smiling.  Weilong  shivered.  Glint  beckoned,  and  led  her  into  the
hallway.

“You  arrived  at  an  awkward  moment,  right  after  Young  Mistress  had
lost her temper,” Glint said gently. “Then, after we came in, and before she
had calmed down, an uppity person we’ve got here broke a house rule. I’m
afraid, young miss, that you’ve been caught in between, and have suffered
quite unfairly.”

“Oh you needn’t say that, good sister! How have I been treated badly?
Sometimes older folks take things out on younger ones—why can’t she, my
own  flesh-and-blood  aunt,  do  the  same?  Even  a  couple  of  slaps  wouldn’t
really matter.”

“Miss is very perceptive,” Glint said.

Weilong was led into a small study decorated entirely in the traditional
Chinese style. White walls, a pale green throw rug, a gold-lacquered table,
chair cushions of fine crimson silk, and the same fine crimson cloth for the
curtains. A person of Weilong’s generation rarely saw this kind of rich, old
silk,  except  perhaps  on  a  quilt  top.  On  the  floor  was  a  square  cloisonne
vase, about two feet high and filled with little rustling flowers that looked at
first like white lilies. In fact they were the pale flower buds of wild rice, but
only someone who’d lived in southern China a long time would know that.

Weilong decided, in light of her many misgivings, simply to make good
use of the opportunity: she’d just follow her original plan and ask her aunt
for help. The decision was her aunt’s to make, and if she refused, it might
be for the best anyway.

Now that her mind was made up, Weilong felt much steadier. Looking
around, she saw that the decor was simple but tasteful. Madame Liang lay
half reclined in a lounge chair, one leg hooked over the armrest and a gold-
embroidered high-heeled slipper dangling from her foot, ready to fall off at
any moment. She had removed her hat; around the house she wore a parrot-
green  head  wrap.  Weilong  couldn’t  help  wondering  about  the  color  of  the
hair beneath it, and whether it had been dyed. She stood in front of her aunt,
who  appeared  to  take  no  notice.  Her  face  covered  with  a  banana-leaf  fan,
Madame Liang seemed to be sleeping.

Weilong wavered, shifting her weight from foot to foot. She was about
to leave when her aunt barked, the sound coming out from around her ears:
“Sit down!” Nothing more; apparently it was her turn to speak.

Humility  was  Weilong’s  only  choice.  “Aunt,”  she  said,  “you’re  like  a
Buddha made of solid crystal, reflecting undisguised reality—lying to you
would be pointless. Here’s the truth: two years ago, when Shanghai was full
of rumors of war, our family fled to Hong Kong and I enrolled at Nanying
Secondary. But life in Hong Kong is expensive, and my father doesn’t have
enough to support us. Now that the situation in Shanghai is improving, my
parents are thinking about going back. My own idea, though, is that since
my studies here are going well, I can graduate next summer. If I go back to
Shanghai  and  start  at  a  new  school,  I’ll  lose  a  year.  But  if  I  stay  in  Hong
Kong by myself, it will be hard to pay my living expenses, not to mention
the school fees. I’ve been thinking this through on my own, without saying
anything  to  my  parents,  because  what  would  be  the  point,  it  would  only

make them worry. I thought about it for a long time, and finally decided to
see if Aunt could help.”

One of Madame Liang’s delicate hands held the banana-leaf fan by the
stem. As she twirled it around, thin rays of light shone through the slits in
the  leaf,  spinning  across  her  face.  “Miss,”  she  said,  “it  seems  you’ve
thought  of  everything  except  my  own  position  in  this  matter.  Even  if  I
wanted  to  help  you,  I  couldn’t.  If  your  father  finds  out,  he’ll  say  I’ve
seduced a girl from a good family and stolen her away. What am I to your
family?  A  willful  degenerate  who  ruined  the  family  honor—refused  the
man  chosen  by  my  brothers,  went  to  Liang  as  his  concubine  instead,  lost
face for a family that was already on the way down. Bah! These declining
old  families,  they’re  like  outhouse  bricks,  pure  petrified  stink.  You  were
born  too  late—you  missed  all  the  fuss,  and  didn’t  get  to  hear  what  your
father said to me then!”

“Father’s  got  that  stuffy  old  bookish  way  of  thinking,  and  he  won’t
change  for  anyone.  He  doesn’t  know  how  to  moderate  his  speech—no
wonder Aunt is angry. But it’s been so many years, and you’re a generous,
fair-minded person—would you bear this grudge even against the younger
generation?”

“Yes, I would! I like to chew on this rotten little memory! I won’t forget
what  he  said  to  me  then!”  She  waved  the  fan,  and  the  yellow  rays  of
sunlight  filtered  through  it  onto  her  face,  like  tiger  whiskers  quivering
around her mouth.

Weilong  tried  to  placate  her  aunt.  “Aunt  hasn’t  forgotten,  and  I  won’t
either. Aunt should give me a chance to make up for my father’s mistakes.
If you raise me till I’m grown, I’ll be your child. I’ll make it up to you!”

Madame Liang kept picking and tearing at the slits in the fan. Suddenly
Weilong saw that her aunt was treating the fan as if it were someone’s face
—and that it was her  face  that  appeared  through  the  slits.  Weilong  turned
red. Madame Liang let her hand fall, then tapped the fan against her chin.
“Do you plan to live at school?” she asked.

“That would be best, I think, after my family’s gone. I’ve inquired, and

found that boarders aren’t charged much more than the day students.”

“It’s not a question of expense. If you live with me, there’ll be someone
around to keep me company, and anyway I have a car so you can get a ride
to school every day. It won’t be any trouble.”

Weilong was stunned. “That would be perfect!” she finally managed to

say.

“There’s  just  one  thing,”  her  aunt  said.  “Are  you  sure  that  your  father

won’t say anything? I don’t want to be blamed for a family breakup.”

“If  my  father  opposes  this  plan  in  the  slightest,  I  won’t  be  back  to

trouble you.”

Madame Liang laughed. “That’s right! You can make up your own lie to

tell your father. Just be sure that it’s not too flimsy!”

Weilong was in the midst of declaring that she had no intention of lying

when Madame Liang cut her off. “Can you play the piano?”
“I took lessons for a few years, but I’m not very good.”
“We  don’t  need  a  concert  pianist.  Work  up  a  few  popular  tunes,  some
songs  that  everyone  likes;  the  only  thing  you  have  to  do  is  play  the
accompaniment. All the young English ladies can do this, and here in Hong
Kong  we  follow  the  English  ways.  I’m  sure  that  your  father,  with  his
antique  notions  of  child-rearing,  never  let  you  go  to  parties.  He  doesn’t
understand  that  after  you’re  married,  you’ll  have  to  know  how  to  mix  in
society. You can’t spend your whole life hiding away. There are things you
can learn if you live with me—a lucky break for you, I’d say.”

Weilong kept murmuring her agreement. Then Madame Liang said, “If

you know how to play tennis, you can be my practice partner.”

“I can play.”
“Do you have a tennis outfit?”
“Just what the school gives us.”
Her  aunt  groaned.  “Oh  yes,  I  know,  those  long  bloomer  pants,  truly
awful.  Take  my  outfit  and  try  it  on  for  size.  Tomorrow  when  the  tailor
comes, I’ll have him make one for you.”

She told Glint to bring out a goose-gold knit shirt and some dove-gray
shorts.  Weilong  tried  on  the  outfit.  It  seemed  large.  So  Glint  got  a  needle
and tucked in the waist.

“Your  legs  are  too  skinny,”  said  Madame  Liang,  “but  girls  are  always

thin.”

Weilong  was  deep  in  thought.  She  wanted  to  get  home  and  tell  her
mother and father, to see what they would say. She quickly took her leave,
changed her clothes, and went out, carrying a parasol. Of course there was a
junior  maid  to  open  the  gate  for  her.  Glint  also  came,  giving  her  a  proper

send-off.  “Goodbye,  young  lady!”  she  said.  It  was  all  very  different  from
the earlier treatment.

Weilong  followed  the  road  down  the  mountain.  The  sun  was  already
sinking  in  the  west,  and  reds,  purples,  and  yellows  mingled  in  florid
profusion  behind  the  hills,  like  a  picture  on  a  cigar  box.  The  hot  sun  had
baked the banana trees and the palms till they were dry, yellow, and wispy,
like tobacco leaves. In the south, the sun sets quickly, and dusk lasts just a
moment. The sun had not yet set, but far down the road, where the trees and
haze  blurred  into  a  smooth  greenish  black,  a  crescent  moon  appeared.
Weilong  walked  toward  the  east,  and  as  she  walked  the  moon  seemed  to
grow  whiter  and  more  translucent.  A  pale  phoenix  with  a  plump  white
breast  had  alighted  somewhere  along  the  winding  road  ahead  and  was
nesting  in  the  forking  tree  branches,  or  so  it  seemed.  As  she  walked,  the
moon appeared to be just beyond her, in the clump of trees around the bend,
but  when  she  got  there  it  had  gone.  Weilong  stopped  and  rested  for  a  bit,
feeling  slightly  dazed.  She  looked  back  at  her  aunt’s  house,  and  strangely
enough she could still see the yellow and red of the window frames, and the
green glass panes reflecting the sea. That splendid white house, covered in
green roof tile, bore more than a passing resemblance to an ancient imperial
tomb.

Weilong felt like one of those young students in Pu Songling’s old ghost
stories, the kind who goes up a mountain to see a relative and then, on the
homeward  journey,  looks  back  at  the  mansion  and  finds  it  has  become  a
grave  mound.  If  the  white  Liang  mansion  had  turned  into  a  tomb,  it
wouldn’t  have  surprised  her  much.  She  could  see  that  her  aunt  was  a
woman  of  great  ability,  and  had  held  back  the  wheel  of  history.  She  had
preserved,  in  her  own  small  world,  the  opulent  lifestyle  of  the  late  Qing
dynasty. Behind her own doors, she was a little Empress Cixi.

As for me, Weilong thought, here I am charging straight into the devil’s
lair.  Whose  fault  will  it  be,  if  I  get  caught  in  a  trap?  Then  again,  we  are,
after all, aunt and niece, and she’s got to consider appearances. She’ll treat
me properly, so long as I keep on my best behavior. If others want to talk,
let  them  talk—I’ll  just  concentrate  on  my  studies.  Someday,  when  I  meet
someone who cares for me, he’ll be sure to understand, and won’t believe
any silly gossip.

When she got back home, she thought it through carefully. She’d have
to  invent  a  story  to  tell  her  father,  but  with  her  mother  she’d  be  more

truthful.  That  way,  she’d  have  someone  in  Shanghai  to  back  her  up,  and
there’d be less chance of being found out. With this plan in mind, Weilong
told  her  mother  all  about  going  to  see  Aunt  Liang,  and  how  her  aunt  had
agreed to pay her tuition and wanted her to move in. As for what she had
gathered  about  the  overall  situation  at  her  aunt’s  house—she  said  nothing
about that.

Weilong’s mother wasn’t too happy about leaving her daughter alone in
Hong Kong, but then neither did she want her studies to be disrupted. All
that fuss about the aunt was water under the bridge, old history, practically
forgotten. The aunt was a lot older now; and of course the years must have
changed her. If she wanted to bury the hatchet and make a generous effort
to  repair things, by helping her niece  continue  her studies—well, this was
good news indeed. Weilong’s mother wanted to go and thank her sister-in-
law in person, but Weilong stopped her by saying that Madame Liang was
just about to go to the hospital to have her appendix out, and the doctor had
ordered  complete  rest.  The  sisters-in-law  hadn’t  seen  each  other  in  many
years;  if  they  got  together,  there  certainly  would  be  a  tearful  scene,  and
stirring up the emotions isn’t good for someone who’s sick. So Mrs. Ge had
to  give  up  the  plan.  To  her  husband,  she  said  that  the  headmaster  had
noticed that Weilong’s grades were very good and that he was offering her a
scholarship  to  cover  tuition  and  living  costs.  Ge  Yukun  was  a  man  who
relied on his social status, with little regard for the niceties; he didn’t bother
about  the  formalities  the  way  his  wife  did.  When  he  heard  the  news,  he
praised his daughter offhandedly. But he gave no sign of planning a trip to
personally  thank  the  headmaster  for  working  so  hard  to  educate  young
people.

Mr.  and  Mrs.  Ge  were  eager  to  return  to  Shanghai,  so  they  hurriedly
packed  their  things  and  gave  up  the  house  they’d  been  renting.  One  old
servant,  the  cook,  who  had  been  with  her  employers  for  many  years,  was
returning with them. The maid of all work, Amah Chen, had been hired in
Hong Kong, so they paid out her wages and let her go. Weilong went to the
boat with her parents to see them off. Night had already fallen. With Amah
Chen carrying her suitcase, she set out for Madame Liang’s house.

It was a humid spring evening, and the Hong Kong hills are famous for
their  fog.  The  white  Liang  mansion  was  melting  viscously  into  the  white
mist,  leaving  only  the  greenish  gleam  of  the  lamplight  shining  through
square after square of the green windowpanes, like ice cubes in peppermint

schnapps.  When  the  fog  thickened,  the  ice  cubes  dissolved,  and  the  lights
went out. The Liang house stood alone on the street; the asphalt road was
empty and quiet, but there was a row of parked cars. “I’ve picked the wrong
day to arrive,” Weilong thought. “Aunt has guests; she won’t have time for
me.”  She  went  up  the  flight  of  steps  to  the  little  gate.  There  she  found  a
palace lantern, a replica of an antique, hanging from its arm of ornamented
bronze.  When  she  reached  the  door,  she  was  surprised  to  find  that  it  was
quiet  inside,  as  if  there  weren’t  any  guests  after  all.  But  then,  listening
intently, she could make out the light clicking sound of mah-jongg tiles—
probably four or five tables.

Big houses in Hong Kong are more densely packed, more modern and
compact,  than  houses  in  Shanghai,  and  they  make  a  different  impression.
Weilong  was  about  to  ring  the  bell  when  Amah  Chen  called  out  from
behind, “Miss, be careful, there are dogs!” A pack of dogs started barking
just then. Amah Chen was frightened. She was wearing a brand-new tunic
of  light  blue  cotton  that  was  stiff  with  starch.  When  she  got  flustered  she
twisted around inside her clothes, so that the cloth rustled noisily. She wore
her hair in a braid, as did Glance and Glint of the Liang household, but the
braid was tied murderously tight, like a nine-segment steel whip in a martial
arts  novel.  Weilong  suddenly  felt  that  she  didn’t  know  Chen,  that  she’d
never  taken  a  good,  hard  look  at  her;  now  she  realized  that  this  longtime
servant was not at all presentable. “Amah Chen, you should go now,” she
said.  “If  you  wait  any  longer,  you’ll  be  scared  going  back  down  the  hill.
Here’s  two  dollars  for  the  ride.  Leave  the  suitcase,  someone  will  come  to
take it.” She sent Amah Chen off, and rang the bell.

A  junior  maid  went  in  and  announced  her  just  as  the  eighth  round  of
mah-jongg was ending and dinner was about to begin. When she heard that
her niece had arrived, Madame Liang hesitated for a while. Always careful
about financial matters, she was planning to spend quite a lot on this niece,
but  still  felt  some  uncertainty.  Did  the  girl  have  potential?  Was  she  worth
the  investment?  Her  tuition  wasn’t  very  expensive,  but  it  wasn’t  cheap
either.  Since  the  money  hadn’t  gone  out  yet,  the  smart  thing  would  be  to
make use of this opportunity—tell the child to change her clothes and come
meet  the  guests.  As  the  saying  goes,  “True  gold  does  not  fear  testing  by
fire.” Then she’d find out right away. The only problem was that tonight’s
guests had been carefully matched; she’d gone to considerable trouble over
the details. If this girl, with her very first trill, did cause a sensation—if the

young phoenix sang more thrillingly than the old one—that would lead to
all  kinds  of  fuss,  and  the  balance  would  be  upset.  If,  on  the  other  hand,
Weilong wasn’t up to the job and things went wrong, well, a blockheaded
child in the middle of a party can spoil all the fun.

And there was another angle to consider: too many greedyeyed people
here.  Madame  Liang  glanced  at  the  lean  and  hungry  tiger  seated  across
from her. Of all her paramours, he’d had the greatest staying power. He was
Situ  Xie,  a  rich  boss  from  Shantou,  the  owner  of  a  factory  that  made
ceramic toilets. Although Madame Liang knew a lot of people, she usually
preferred  Hong  Kong’s  local  big  shots,  members  of  the  gentlemanly  class
who had ties to officialdom. Nonetheless, she’d been quite taken with this
businessman,  for  he  was  an  expert  charmer,  with  a  talent  for  pleasing  the
ladies. They’d known each other for a long time now, with Madame Liang
always walking in slight fear of him, letting him have his way and keeping
herself in check. If twenty years had passed like a single day for Situ Xie
and Madame Liang, it was because he understood her all too well, and paid
her plenty of attention; besides, although she didn’t pick up the tab for him,
he didn’t have to spend money on her, either. When he wanted to throw a
dinner party, he could use her place—it was lovely and the guests were well
treated; people could relax and enjoy themselves here. This evening’s party
was a send-off for Situ Xie himself: soon he would be returning to Shantou
to marry a girl. Then again, if he were to take a liking to Weilong he might
not go back to Shantou after all—that could get complicated.

Madame Liang quietly summoned Glint. “Go and make my excuses to
the Ge girl,” she ordered. “Tell her I can’t get away right now, but I’ll see
her in the morning. Ask her if she’s had dinner. The blue bedroom will be
hers, so take her there.”

Glint  went  off  to  discharge  her  duty.  She  was  wearing  a  lilaccolored
fitted tunic over a pair of narrow, kingfisher-blue trousers, her arms folded
inside  a  white  vest  embroidered  with  gold  thread—a  slave-girl  costume
from  the  days  of  Dream  of  the  Red  Chamber.  She  wore  no  powder  at  all,
only a bit of green oil, highlighting the lusciousness of her coppery skin.

As  soon  as  she  saw  Weilong,  Glint  rushed  forward  and  took  her
luggage. “Young Mistress has been anxiously awaiting your arrival, asking
every day why you weren’t here yet. But tonight, as luck would have it, she
has guests.”

Then, leaning over to Weilong’s.ear, she added, “They’re all old masters
and  wives,  and  Young  Mistress  is  afraid  you’ll  feel  awkward  and
uncomfortable  with  them,  so  she’s  ordered  a  separate  supper  for  you
upstairs.”

“Thank you very much,” said Weilong, “but I’ve already eaten.”
“Then I’ll take you to your room,” said Glint. “If you get hungry later
on,  just  ring  the  bell  and  order  a  sandwich.  There  will  be  someone  in  the
kitchen all night.”

When Weilong went upstairs, the people below sat down for dinner, and
radio  music  drifted  upward.  Weilong’s  room,  small  like  a  boat,  was
launched  on  waves  of  music.  The  old  wall  lamp  in  its  red  gauze  shade
seemed to bob and float, and she felt herself swaying about, exuberant and
elated. She opened the pearly net curtains and leaned against the frame of
the glass door. There was a narrow balcony and, beyond the metal railing,
the  mist  was  drifting  by,  thick,  white,  and  rolling;  it  felt  like  a  shipboard
view of the sea.

Weilong opened her suitcase, ready to put her things in the drawers, but
when  she  opened  the  door  she  found  the  closet  was  full  of  clothes—
gleaming,  gorgeous  clothes.  “Whose  are  these?”  she  gasped.  “Aunt  must
have forgotten to clear this closet out.”

Like the child that she still was, she had to lock the door and try on all
the clothes, which fit her perfectly. Suddenly she realized that her aunt had
put them there for her. Silks and satins, brocade housedresses, short coats,
long coats, beach wraps, nightgowns, bath wear, evening gowns, afternoon
cocktail dresses, semiformal dining wear for entertaining guests at home—
everything  was  there.  What  use  would  a  schoolgirl  have  for  all  this?
Weilong  hurriedly  stripped  off  the  dinner  dress  she’d  been  trying  on  and
threw it onto the bed. Her knees grew weak and she sat down on the bed,
heat surging across her face. “Isn’t this just how a bordello buys girls?” she
whispered  to  herself.  She  sat  for  a  moment,  then  stood  up  and  put  each
outfit  back  onto  its  hanger.  Hanging  inside  each  dress  was  a  little  white
satin sachet filled with lilac petals; the closet smelled of their sweet scent.

Weilong was leaning into the closet to straighten out the sachets when
she heard a woman’s laugh downstairs. It was a sweet, slippery laugh, and
Weilong  couldn’t  help  laughing  too.  “Glint  said  the  guests  were  all  old
masters and wives. Well, there’s no telling whether those masters really are

old,  but  as  for  the  wives,  they  don’t  sound  like  old  wives—or  like  young
wives either!”

When dinner was finished, the mah-jongg started again, but some of the
guests turned on the phonograph and started to dance. Weilong couldn’t get
to sleep; as soon as she shut her eyes she was trying on clothes, one outfit
after  another.  Woolen  things,  thick  and  furry  as  a  perturbing  jazz  dance;
crushed-velvet things, deep and sad as an aria from a Western opera; rich,
fine silks, smooth and slippery like “The Blue Danube,” coolly enveloping
the  whole  body.  She  had  just  fallen  into  a  dazed  slumber  when  the  music
changed. She woke with a start. The panting thrust of a rumba came from
downstairs, and she couldn’t help but think of that long electric-purple dress
hanging  in  the  closet,  and  the  swish  it  would  make  with  each  dance  step.
“Why  not  give  it  a  try?”  she  murmured  softly  to  everything  downstairs.
Only her lips moved, without any sound, but still she yanked the blanket up
over  her  head.  No  one  could  hear  her.  “Why  not  give  it  a  try?”  she
whispered again. Then, smiling, she fell asleep.

Weilong was used to getting up early, and the next morning she washed
her face,  combed  her hair, and was  downstairs at  eight o’clock. The mah-
jongg  games  had  just  broken  up;  the  smoke  in  the  living  room  was  a
choking,  dizzying  haze.  Glint  was  supervising  some  junior  maids  as  they
picked up the snack trays. Madame Liang had taken her shoes off, and now
sat  cross-legged  on  the  sofa  with  a  cigarette,  scolding  Glance.  Glance
leaned  on  the  mah-jongg  table,  scraping  the  tiles  together  and  dropping
them,  with  a  clank,  into  a  sandalwood  box.  Madame  Liang  wore  a  head
wrap  of  midnight-blue  crepe  silk  and  a  pair  of  dangling  diamond  earrings
that,  when  they  caught  the  light,  seemed  to  wink  and  smile.  Her  face,
however, was as hard as iron. Upon seeing Weilong, she nodded and asked,
“What  time  do  you  go  to  school?  Tell  the  driver  to  take  you.  He’s  just
returned from taking guests home, so he’s still up.”
“We’re still on spring break,” Weilong said.
“Oh?”  said  Madame  Liang.  “In  that  case,  we  could  have  a  nice  long
chat today, except I’m so terribly tired. Glint, go and get some breakfast for
the young lady.” And she went on smoking her cigarette, just as if Weilong
wasn’t there.

Thinking  that  Weilong’s  arrival  had  put  a  stop  to  Madame  Liang’s
scolding, Glance took the mah-jongg box and started to walk away. “Stand
still!” Madame Liang shouted. Glance stood still, her back to her mistress.

“We won’t discuss what you were doing with George Qiao before all this,”
said Madame Liang. “I’ve told you about this so many times, but you let it
go in one ear and out the other! Now I’ve barred the door to him, and you
go  sneaking  out  to  look  for  him.  And  you  think  I  don’t  know!  You’re  so
cheap, giving in to him like that! A natural-born slave girl, that’s what you
are!”

Glance  was  still  young  and  couldn’t  back  down,  at  least  not  with
Weilong standing there. “Even if I did give in to him,” she said sullenly, “he
wouldn’t  want  to  keep  me  around.  And  if  I  wasn’t  like  a  slave  girl,  he
wouldn’t even give me the time of day. Why is that? I do not understand!”

Leaping  to  her  feet,  Madame  Liang  slapped  Glance  full  in  the  face.
Glance’s  feelings  boiled  over.  “Who’s  been  feeding  you  all  this  gossip
anyway?” she cried out. “Maybe the Qiao family’s driver? All the men in
the Qiao family, young and old—you’ve got them all sewed up—probably
even  their  Seventh  Daughter-in-law’s  new  baby  boy!  You  haven’t
overlooked a single one, not even the driver. So hit me, go ahead, hit me!
But watch out or I’ll tell everything I know!”

Madame Liang sat back down, smiling. “Feel free!” she said. “Go ahead
and tell it to the press. This kind of free publicity is always a great bargain
for me. I don’t have any family elders to report to, I don’t have any children
or grandchildren. I’ve got money, I’ve got friends, so who am I afraid of?
But you’d better learn to be more careful. I’ve been running this place for
quite a while now, and I don’t plan on letting a servant get the upper hand.
Do you think you’re irreplaceable?”

Glance turned and cast a glance at Weilong. “There’s no question of my
being  irreplaceable,”  she  said  with  a  bitter  smirk.  “The  replacement  has
already  arrived.  Must  be  a  very  satisfactory  arrangement,  one’s  own  flesh
and  blood,  everyone  living  together  so  cozily,  and  ‘no  water  wasted  on
other folks’ fields.’ ”

“Why do you always drag others in? You make everything dirty, don’t
you! I was going to have it out with you, but I’m too tired. I haven’t got the
energy to deal with your carryings on. Get out of here!”

“Then I’ll go for good!” Glance declared. “I could spend a lifetime here

and never get anywhere!”

“You  think  you’re  going  to  get  somewhere?  You’ll  lose  the  ground
under  your  feet,  more  likely!  You  think  you  can  spend  a  few  years  here,
meet  a  few  big  shots,  and  one  of  them  will  help  you  out.  Well,  you  can

forget about that! I’ve got people at the governor’s office: leave my place,
and you’ll never find another situation in Hong Kong. Who would dare to
take you in?”

“Is this little patch of dried tofu they call Hong Kong the only place on

earth?”

“You’ll  never  get  away!  Your  parents  will  marry  you  off  in  the

countryside.”

“My parents—control me like that?” Glance snorted.
“Your mother’s no fool. She has half a dozen daughters and wants me to
find places for them. She wants me to take care of your little sisters, and of
course she’s not going to cross me. She’ll keep you under control.”

Glance  was  stunned.  At  first  she  couldn’t  grasp  what  Madame  Liang
had said, but after a moment of shocked silence, she burst into tears. Glint
rushed up and practically dragged Glance out of the room, shushing her all
the while. “It’s all because Young Mistress has spoiled you, never keeping
you  in  your  place.  Try  to  be  more  sensible!  You  know,  as  soon  as  Young
Mistress feels better, she’s sure to give you something toward your dowry.”
When  Glint  and  Glance  had  left  the  room,  a  junior  maid  crept  in
gingerly, bringing slippers for Madame Liang. “Your bath is ready, ma’am,”
she  murmured.  “You’ve  been  up  a  long  time.  Wouldn’t  you  like  to  take  a
nap after your bath?” Madame Liang slid her feet into the slippers, tossed
her  cigarette  into  a  potted  azalea,  stood  up,  and  left  the  room.  The  azalea
was  densely  packed  with  flowers,  and  the  cigarette  butt  fell  among  them,
scorching a petal brown.

Weilong stood alone in the living room until a junior maid came in and
called  her to  breakfast.  After  breakfast,  she went upstairs  and stood  at  the
window of her room, gazing vacantly. There was the rectangular grass lawn,
neatly  trimmed,  sprinkled  with  dew,  a  bold  deep  green.  With  sharp  jerky
steps,  a  sparrow  was  crossing  the  lawn,  only  to  stop  along  the  way,  as  if
dazed  by  that  continent  of  stupefying  green.  Step  by  jerky  step,  it  started
back.  Weilong  had  thought  that  sparrows  only  hopped;  she  had  never
realized  that  they  could  move  in  long,  measured  strides,  and  she  watched
for a long time. Perhaps it wasn’t a sparrow? She was still wondering when
two porters passed down the garden path, puffing as they carried a red trunk
through the gate. They were followed by a middle-aged woman in a tunic
and  trousers  of  black  gambiered  silk;  Glance’s  mother,  apparently.  Glance
came out too and just stood there. She was waiting, it seemed, for another

porter who was still inside. Her eyes were red and swollen from crying, and
her powder had turned her face to a light brown. Weilong could only see her
in  profile,  eyes  staring  straight  ahead,  face  expressionless,  a  clay  mask.
After watching for some time, Weilong noticed the slight twitch of a muscle
running  from  cheek  to  temple.  Oh,  so  that  was  it:  Glance  was  eating
peanuts. Every once in a while a shred of red peanut skin would pop out of
the corner of her mouth.

Suddenly  Weilong  didn’t  want  to  watch  anymore.  She  turned  and
opened the closet door, leaning against it. It was dark inside the closet, and
the  lilac scent  made  her dizzy. The  air  of the  faraway past  was  in  there—
decorous, languid, heedless of time. In that closet there was no bright, clear
morning  like  the  one  outside  the  window,  with  its  flat  green  grass,  mute
frightened face, and peanut skins at the corner of the mouth… all that dirty,
complicated, unreasonable reality.

Once  Weilong  had  gone  into  that  clothes  closet,  she  stayed  for  two  or
three months, and she had lots of opportunities to dress up. A banquet, a tea
party,  a  concert,  a  mah-jongg  party—for  her  these  were  little  more  than
occasions for putting on fine clothes. She considered herself fortunate, since
Madame  Liang  merely  used  her  as  a  signboard  to  attract  the  mainstream
sort  of  youth.  Her  aunt  did  take  her  to  fancy  dance  halls  a  few  times,  but
usually  she  invited  people  over  to  the  house.  Steeped  as  they  are  in  the
conservative  habits  of  the  British  upper  class,  the  young  ladies  of  Hong
Kong’s  great  families  maintain  an  air  of  dignified  reserve,  quite  unlike
Shanghai’s socialites.

Madame Liang was extremely picky about the young men who pursued
Weilong, more severe even than the imperial household when it is choosing
a  royal  son-in-law.  If  the  lucky  half  dozen  who  were  in  the  running  grew
excessively ardent in their pursuit, Madame Liang simply took the precious
goods  off  the  shelf:  none  of  the  suitors  would  be  allowed  to  go  near  her
niece. Then, when she had permitted one of them to get close, she swooped
in  with  a  dexterous  display  of  charm,  and  recruited  him  for  her  own
purposes. When a youth paid his addresses to Madame Liang, he was like
an  old  drunk  who  pretends  he  doesn’t  want  a  drink;  in  the  end,  he
succumbed,  and  there  he’d  be,  deep  in  an  affair.  Weilong  got  used  to
watching this little drama, without caring much about it.

One day, as she was preparing to go out, Weilong urged Glint to do up
her hair quickly. Madame Liang had assigned her favorite attendant to wait

on  Weilong,  and  Glint  had  quickly  got  a  very  good  grasp  of  Weilong’s
temperament. Weilong, with no family in Hong Kong to turn to, had found
that Glint, though she could be quite cold-hearted, always had warm, wise
advice for her. Glint was now her trusted confidante.

“How  about  the  dress  first  and  then  the  hair?”  Glint  said  now.
“Otherwise, you’ll muss your hair when you pull the dress over your head.”
“Pick  out  something  simple,”  Weilong  said.  “The  choir  is  going  to
practice  in  the  church,  and  I’m  afraid  the  people  there  won’t  approve  of
fancy clothes.”

But  Glint  went  ahead  and  chose  a  ginger-yellow  crepe  cheongsam.  “I
don’t understand,” she said. “You’re not a Christian, so why join the choir?
Your  social  schedule  keeps  you  busy  all  day  long,  and  then  you  study  till
dawn. These past two weeks you’ve been working so hard to get ready for
your exams that you’re positively wasting away! Why are you ruining your
health this way?”

Weilong sighed and dipped her chin to let Glint part her hair. “You say
I’m studying too much. But you know very well that I go out to parties just
to help my aunt and keep her happy. I worked very hard for this chance to
study, so now I have to do a good job and get respectable grades.”

“I  don’t  mean  to  rain  on  your  parade,  but  what  is  the  point  of
graduating?  You’re  still  in  secondary  school,  Hong  Kong  has  only  one
university, and university graduates can’t find work anyway! If they do find
a job, it pays fifty or sixty dollars a month, and for that they have to teach in
a primary school run by the church and put up with the foreign nuns’ bad
tempers. It’s really not worth it!”

“You think I haven’t thought of all that? Still, I have to take what I can

get!”

“Now don’t get angry at what I’m going to say. I think you should use
all these social occasions to look around and find someone who’ll be right
for you.”

Weilong  smiled  sarcastically.  “And  who  would  that  be,  in  my  aunt’s
circle  of  friends?  They’re  either  young  men  as  slippery  as  dance-hall
playboys or the kind of old man who likes to hang around a harem. Or else
they’re British military men, in which case, if they’re lieutenants or above,
they don’t want to get involved with someone from the yellow race. That’s
how it is in Hong Kong!”

“Oh, now I get it!” Glint responded with a sudden laugh. “No wonder
you  joined  the  choir  even  though  you  don’t  have  any  free  time.  They  say
there are quite a few college students in that group.”

“I  don’t  mind  if  you  joke  about  this  with  me,”  Weilong  smiled.  “But

don’t go saying anything to Aunt!”

Glint was silent.
“Did  you  hear  me?”  Weilong  was  insistent.  “Don’t  go  spreading

rumors!”

Glint  was  startled  out  of  her  reverie.  “What  do  you  take  me  for?  You
think I can’t keep quiet about a little thing like this?” She glanced around,
then said quietly, “Miss, you’d better be careful. While you’ve been looking
for  someone  to  pick,  our  Young  Mistress,  with  her  sharp  eyes  and  quick
fingers, has already picked one out for herself.”

Weilong looked up sharply, knocking Glint’s hand aside. “Who do you

mean?”

“That Lu Somebody in your choir, the one who’s good at tennis. He’s a

college student, isn’t he? Oh, now I remember, his name is Lu Zhaolin.”

Weilong’s face flushed bright red; she bit her lips in silence. Finally, she

said, “How do you know that she…”

“Eh! How could I not know? If it weren’t for this, she wouldn’t have let
you  join  the  choir  in  the  first  place.  She  wouldn’t  let  you  go  off  on  your
own  to  make  friends,  not  even  to  sing  with  a  big  group  of  people  in  the
church. That’s the rule here. Anyone who wants to see you has to come in
through  the  front  door  and  pay  a  proper  visit.  And  once  they’ve  come  in
that  way,  it’s  easy  to  manage  things.  I  thought  it  was  strange  when  she
didn’t  say  anything  about  your  joining  the  choir.  Two  weeks  ago,  all  she
could talk about was holding a garden party and inviting your choir friends,
so  everyone  would  have  a  chance  to  get  acquainted.  Then  that  Lu  person
went  to  Manila  for  a  tennis  match,  and  the  garden  party  was  put  off.  As
soon  as  Lu  came  back,  she  started  talking  about  it  again.  As  for  the  real
purpose of tomorrow’s party, well, of course you’ve been kept in the dark!”
Weilong ground her teeth. “If he falls for her sweet-talking and goes off
with her, then he’s not someone who can be trusted. I’ll see through his act
right away. Probably just as well.”

“You’re being foolish,” Glint said. “Crows will be black, wherever you
go; men will always fall for this kind of bait. Don’t forget—your Mr. Lu is
young, a student, probably inexperienced. If he falls for this, you can hardly

blame him. Write him a letter, if you know him well enough. Ask him not to
come tomorrow.”

“Know  him!”  Weilong  smiled  blandly.  “We’ve  barely  spoken  to  each

other!” She let the matter drop.

The  garden  party  was  on  the  following  day.  There’s  a  touch  of
nineteenth-century England in every garden party. In England the skies are
hardly  ever  clear,  but  when  at  last  the  balmy  summer  days  do  arrive,  the
lords  and  ladies  hold  these  sorts  of  semiformal  parties  on  their  country
estates.  The  ladies  wear  straw  hats  with  broad  floppy  brims,  corsages  of
old-fashioned  artificial  flowers,  and  elbow-length  silk  gloves,  all  very
fancy, just as if they were attending a formal court function. Anyone in the
county with the least claim to status is sure to attend, and the local minister
and  his  wife  show  up  to  bow  and  scrape.  Decked  out  in  their  finery,  the
company  paces  about  the  castle  grounds  and  through  the  rocky  ruins,
engaging in stiff conversation. Then, after tea, they beg some young ladies
to play the piano and sing “The Last Rose of Summer.”

Hong  Kong  garden  parties  are  even  better.  Hong  Kong  society  copies
English  custom  in  every  respect,  but  goes  on  adding  further  touches  until
the  original  conception  is  entirely  lost.  Madame  Liang’s  garden  party  was
garishly  swathed  in  local  color.  “Good  luck”  paper  lanterns  had  been
planted on five-foot poles all around the lawn; when they were lit at dusk,
they  glimmered  vaguely  in  the  background—a  perfect  prop  for  a
Hollywood production of Secrets of the Qing Palace. Beach umbrellas were
stuck  at  various  angles  among  the  lanterns,  an  incongruously  Western
touch.  Young  maids  and  old  amahs,  their  hair  oiled  and  twisted  into  long
braids,  wove  through  the  forest  of  umbrella  poles,  proffering  cocktails,
snacks, and fruit juice on shaky silver trays.

Since Madame Liang was throwing this party for the handsome young
men in the choir, the guest list had been carefully scrutinized. Not a single
tipsy  little  British  officer  was  to  be  seen;  the  atmosphere  was  prim  and
proper. Given the religious nature of the choir, half a dozen Catholic nuns
had  also  been  invited.  The  monks  and  nuns  of  Hong  Kong  are  used  to
attending  social  events,  and  they  know  how  to  mingle;  they  have  lively,
pleasing manners. These nuns, however, were not as brilliant as some, and
they  spoke  only  French  and  Latin.  Since  Weilong  was  taking  French  at
school and had picked up a few phrases, Madame Liang dispatched her to
entertain them.

Weilong  watched  helplessly  as  Lu  Zhaolin  arrived.  Madame  Liang,
gorgeously  attired,  took  his  hand  and,  blinking  in  the  bright  sun,  said
something  Weilong  couldn’t  hear.  Lu  Zhaolin  left  his  hand  in  Madame
Liang’s,  but  he  glanced  about,  searching  for  Weilong.  Madame  Liang’s
sharp  eyes  found  her  first.  Madame  Liang’s  gaze  slid  from  Lu  Zhaolin  to
Weilong, then back to Lu Zhaolin. Weilong gave Lu Zhaolin a forced smile.
He  was  a  tall,  broad-shouldered,  dark-skinned  youth;  when  he  smiled  in
return his white teeth flashed in the sun.

Then the wind changed, and started blowing toward Weilong; she could
just hear Madame Liang saying, “Poor child! She hardly ever gets a chance
to use her French. Let’s not bother her while she’s having fun.” With that,
she led him off, and they disappeared into the crowd.

The second time Weilong caught sight of them, they were sitting under
a  blue-and-white-striped  beach  umbrella.  Madame  Liang’s  elbows  were
propped on the table; she sipped on a straw and gazed at Lu Zhaolin, who
sat across from her. Lu Zhaolin, however, was coolly scanning the crowd.
Weilong followed his gaze as he looked around. There was only one person
there  who  made  his  eyes  grow  fixed  and  brilliant.  Weilong’s  heart  fizzed
sourly,  like  a  carbonated  drink  after  a  squirt  of  lemon.  Lu  Zhaolin  was
looking at a mixed-race girl who was no more than fifteen or sixteen years
old. The whiteness of her skin was not that of a Chinese; it was a flat white,
altogether opaque. A snow-white face with large, pale-green eyes hinting of
mischief, jet eyebrows and lashes, and full, luscious, scarlet lips—a face of
almost  forbidding  beauty.  This  was  Zhou  Jijie,  peerless  among  the  party
girls  in  Hong  Kong’s  younger  set.  Her  genealogy  was  said  to  be  very
complicated; it included, at the minimum, Arab, Negro, Indian, Indonesian,
and  Portuguese  blood,  with  only  a  dash  of  Chinese.  Zhou  Jijie  was  quite
young,  but  she  had  quickly  risen  to  prominence,  and  her  place  in  Hong
Kong’s  social  scene  was  quite  secure.  Weilong,  by  contrast,  was  a
newcomer.  A  certain  amount  of  enmity  was  unavoidable,  but  the  two  of
them got along well enough.

Zhou Jijie could feel Weilong scrutinizing her, so she smiled back, and
waved  at  her  to  come  over.  Weilong  winked  in  return,  and  then,  pouting,
glanced  over  at  the  nuns.  The  nuns  were  going  on  about  the  preparations
they  were  making  for  the  eightieth  birthday  of  their  mother  superior.
Suddenly a young Vietnamese appeared, speaking fluent French and asking
about  their  recent  fund-raising  for  the  orphanage.  The  nuns  were  thrilled

and started telling him, in great detail, all about a visit they’d received from
the  governor’s  wife.  Weilong  took  the  opportunity  to  escape,  and  went
looking for Zhou Jijie.

Zhou  Jijie  pointed  toward  her  own  face.  “You  should  thank  me!”  she

teased.

“Was  it  you  who  sent  the  bodhisattva  that  saved  my  life?  How

extremely kind!”

Just then, a small scuffle broke out at the iron gate. Glint, all smiles, was
barring the way to a man who was trying to get in. In the end, however, she
couldn’t  prevent  his  entry;  he  strode  right  into  the  party.  Weilong  nudged
Zhou Jijie. “Look, look, it’s your brother, isn’t it? I didn’t know you had an
older brother.”

Jijie  glared  at  her.  Then  her  brow  softened  and  she  spoke  in  a
deceptively  pleasant  manner.  “I  really  don’t  like  hearing  that  I  look  like
George. If I had a face like his, I’d marry a Muslim straight off, and spend
my life behind a veil!”

Weilong  suddenly  remembered  being  told  that  Zhou  Jijie  and  George
Qiao had the same mother but different fathers, though the details were of
course entirely hush-hush. No wonder Zhou Jijie avoided the topic. Weilong
was  ashamed  to  have  made  such  a  faux  pas,  and  hurried  on  to  another
subject.

But  Jijie,  after  expressing  such  contempt  for  George  Qiao,  was  now
following  his  every  move.  Five  minutes  hadn’t  passed  before  she  was
stifling  a  giggle;  covering  her  mouth  with  her  hand,  she  whispered  to
Weilong:  “Look  over  there—George  is  buzzing  around  in  front  of  your
aunt, and the more she ignores him, the more outrageously he flirts. She’s
just about to lose her temper!”

Weilong looked, but the first thing she noticed was the great change that
had  come  over  Lu  Zhaolin;  he  and  Madame  Liang  were  now  getting  on
very  well  indeed—fused  together,  almost,  their  eyes  beaded  on  a  single
string. Weilong and Lu Zhaolin had known each other for a while now, but
they had never reached this stage. Weilong choked back anger, and her eyes
grew red. “What an idiot!” she cursed under her breath. “What an idiot! Are
all men so stupid?”

Meanwhile,  George  was  pacing  back  and  forth  in  front  of  Madame
Liang,  both  hands  thrust  deep  into  his  pockets.  He  was  talking  to  the
surrounding company, but his entire attention was fixed on her, and he kept

glancing in her direction. Now people started looking at Madame Liang and
Lu Zhaolin. Things got so heated, as the two of them battled it out with eyes
and  eyebrows,  that  everyone  had  to  laugh.  Madame  Liang  was  the  very
picture of tolerant magnanimity, but now she felt a bit ill-at-ease. Pushing
away her juice glass, she draped her arm over the back of the seat and gave
Weilong  a  little  wink.  Weilong  looked  over  at  George  Qiao;  her  aunt
nodded  slightly.  It  was  time  for  Weilong  to  leave  Zhou  Jijie  and  make
herself pleasant to George Qiao.

Walking  toward  him,  she  held  out  her  hand  in  greeting.  “Are  you

George Qiao? We haven’t been introduced.”

They shook hands, after which he put his hands back in his pockets and
examined her appearance in great detail, smiling all the while. Weilong was
wearing  a  cheongsam  of  thin,  porcelain-green  silk,  and  when  he  stared  at
her with his dark green eyes, her arms grew hot, like hot milk pouring out
of a green pitcher—she felt her whole body melting. She steadied herself at
once. “Am I bothering you?” she asked. “Why are you staring like that? It’s
as if I were a thorn stuck in your eye!”

“Of  course  I’m staring!  I  don’t know if  that thorn  will ever  come  out.

Better save it for a souvenir.”

“What  a joker! The  sun’s too  strong  here,  let’s go walk in  the  shade a

bit.”

They  walked  along  together.  George  sighed.  “I  could  hit  myself.  How

come I never knew there was someone like you in Hong Kong?”

“You  haven’t  come  around  much,  not  since  I  moved  in  with  my  aunt,
and I seldom go out. Otherwise, we probably would have met by now. You
get around a lot, I hear.”

“And yet I almost missed this chance! What an amazing stroke of luck!
We could have been born into separate worlds, or into the same world but
with you twenty years older than me. Even ten years would be terrible. Of
course,  if  I’d  been  born  twenty  years  before  you,  that  wouldn’t  matter  so
much. You don’t think I’ll be too disgusting when I’m old, do you?”

“What a way to talk!”
She  looked  at  him  again,  trying  to  imagine  what  he  would  look  like
when he was old. He had even less color in his cheeks than Jijie; even his
lips  were  whitish,  almost  like  plaster.  Under  his  thick  black  brows  and
lashes, his eyes were like fields of young rice when the wind blows across
them  and  reveals,  in  flashes,  the  green  gleam  of  water  between  the  rice

shoots—flashing,  then  darkening  again.  George  Qiao  was  tall  and  well
built,  but  his  clothes  fit  him so perfectly, with  such casual grace,  that you
didn’t  even  notice  his  physique.  He  made  Lu  Zhaolin  look  rough  and
doltish. Weilong was feeling quite bitter toward Madame Liang because of
Lu  Zhaolin,  and  George  was  the  only  man  she’d  seen  who  could  resist
Madame Liang’s charms. That made her heart warm toward him.

When  he  learned  that  she  was  from  Shanghai,  George  asked  her,

“Which do you like better, Shanghai or Hong Kong?”

“Well, the scenery in Hong Kong is better of course. It’s famous for its

beaches. Perhaps if I could swim I’d like Hong Kong even more.”

“I’d  be  happy  to  give  you  some  lessons  later  on—if  you’re  interested,

that is.”

Next, he praised her English.
“Oh, it’s not that good,” Weilong demurred. “Up until this year, I never
spoke English outside of school. Lately I’ve been speaking a little English
with my aunt’s friends, but my grammar is all wrong.”

“Probably you’re just not used to it,” he said. “It’s a bit tiring, isn’t it?

Let’s not speak English.”

“Then  what  shall  we  speak?  You  don’t  understand  Shanghainese,  and

my Cantonese is terrible.”

“Then  let’s  not  talk  at  all.  You’ve  been  entertaining  these  dreadful

people all afternoon, you must need a break.”

“Now that you mention it, I do feel a bit tired.”
She sat down on a bench, and George sat next to her. After a moment,

Weilong laughed. “Three minutes’ silence, just as if we’re in mourning!”

“Can’t  two  people  sit  together  without  talking?”  As  he  spoke,  his  arm

went out along the backrest, behind Weilong.

“It would be better to talk a bit,” Weilong hurriedly said.
“If you insist on conversation, then I’ll speak in Portuguese.” He started

rattling away at once.

Weilong listened, her head to one side and her hands clasped around her

knees. “I don’t know what you’re saying. Something unkind, no doubt!”

“Is that what my tone implies?” he asked gently.
Weilong blushed and hid her face.
“I’d  translate  it  into  English  for  you,  but  I’m  afraid  I’m  not  brave

enough.”

Weilong  covered  her  ears.  “Who  wants  to  hear,  anyway?”  Then  she

stood up and walked back toward the crowd.

By that time the sky was already dark. The moon had just risen; it was
dark  and  yellow,  like  the  scorch  mark  left  on  jade-green  satin  when  a
burning  ash  of  incense  falls  into  someone’s  needlework.  Weilong  turned
and saw that George was following her. “I can’t go on dallying with you,”
she said. “And I’ll thank you to refrain from annoying my aunt.”

“Oh,  I  just  wanted  to  fluster  her  a  bit.  She  doesn’t  fluster  easily.  If  a
woman’s  too  calm,  too  steady  and  self-controlled,  then  she’s  not  so
attractive.”

Weilong  gave  a  little  hiss,  then  ordered  him  not  to  cause  her  aunt  any

further displeasure.

“Your  aunt  doesn’t  lose  very  often,  but  against  me,  she  lost,”  George
said,  smiling  lightly.  “Today,  just  when  she  was  most  contented,  she  saw
me, and had to remember the defeat she suffered. Naturally, she’s angry.”

“If you keep on talking nonsense, I’ll get angry.”
“If  you  want  me  to  leave,  I  will.  Just  promise  you’ll  go  out  with  me

tomorrow.”

“I can’t. You know I can’t!”
“Does that mean I have to come here to see you? Your aunt won’t let me
in the door! The only reason she didn’t have me chased off today is that she
didn’t want to be embarrassed in front of all these people.”

Weilong bowed her head, not saying a word. Just then, Madame Liang
and  Lu  Zhaolin,  holding  their  cocktail  glasses  high,  came  walking—or
rather,  floating—over  to  Weilong.  They  were  both  tipsy.  “Go  find  Jijie,”
Madame Liang said to Weilong, “and play something for us on the piano.
Let’s  sing  some  songs  while  everyone’s  still  here,  liven  things  up  a  bit.”
Weilong nodded, then turned to George Qiao. He had vanished.

Weilong  couldn’t  find  Jijie  anywhere,  but  when  she  asked  the  maids
they said she was upstairs washing her face. Weilong went upstairs and saw
that  her  aunt’s  bathroom  light  was  on.  Jijie  was  standing  in  front  of  the
mirror, wiping her face with a tissue and some cleansing lotion.

“They want you to play the piano,” said Weilong.
“And just who is the silver-throated diva this time? I really haven’t got

the patience it takes to back them up!”

“No  one’s  doing  a  solo.  They’re  going  to  sing  popular  tunes  together,

try to have some fun.”

Jijie wadded up the tissue and threw it at the mirror. “So it’s for fun, eh?
Those people all have windpipes like cracked bamboo. One person singing,
but it sounds like half a dozen voices at once.”

Weilong  laughed,  then  sat  down  sideways  on  the  raised  doorsill.

“You’re drunk!” she exclaimed.

“What if I am? They plied me with alcohol.” When she’d had a few, her

face grew even whiter. Only the rims of her eyes were red.

“You seem to know all the guests pretty well.”
“I’ve  met  a  lot  of  those  South  China  University  students  before.
Whenever they throw a tea dance, a dinner dance, or a picnic, they love to
drag my sister and me along. Last year my sister entered the university, so
now we’re in even greater demand.”

“Are you planning to go to the university after you graduate next year?”
“What I’d really like is to get as far away from here as possible, go to

university in Australia maybe, or Hawaii. I’m sick of Hong Kong.”

“Is George studying at South China?”
“Him! He’s the Qiao family’s most illustrious good-for-nothing. He got
into the  university five  years  ago, but  quit after only  half  a year. He  went
back last year because of my sister Jimiao, and what he did then stirred up a
lot of talk. It’s a good thing he’s his father’s least favorite son; otherwise the
old man would have been furious. Weilong, you probably don’t know about
mixed-blood boys; even the best are a bit sullen, like slave girls.”

Weilong  swallowed  the  words  that  had  risen  to  her  lips,  and  smiled  at

Jijie.

“It’s  true!  I’m  mixed-blood  myself  and  I’ve  been  through  it  all.  These
mixed-blood boys are the ones we’re most likely to marry. We can’t marry a
Chinese—we’ve  got  foreign-style  educations,  so  we  don’t  fit  in  with  the
pure Chinese types. We can’t marry a foreigner, either—have you seen any
whites here who aren’t deeply influenced by race concepts? Even if one of
them wanted to marry one of us, there’d be too much social pressure against
it.  Anyone  who  marries  an  Oriental  loses  his  career.  In  this  day  and  age,
who would be that romantic?”

Weilong hadn’t expected Jijie to pour out her heart. She nodded and bit
her fingernails. “Really? I hadn’t realized. Such a tiny group from which to
choose!”

“That’s  why  Jimiao  is  desperate  to  leave  Hong  Kong.  It’s  too  colonial
here.  If  we  go  somewhere  else,  the  race  restrictions  can’t  possibly  be  as

severe,  can  they?  There  must  be  some  place  in  the  world  where  we  can
live.” The rims of her eyes grew even redder as she spoke.

“You’re  really  drunk!”  said  Weilong.  “Here  you  are  getting  all

emotional!” She waited a moment, then asked, “So what happened then?”

“When?” Jijie was confused.
“George Qiao and your sister.”
“Oh,  you  mean  them.  Well,  after  that,  a  lot  of  ridiculous  things
happened!  He  made  my  sister  really  angry.  You  don’t  know  what  a  loose
tongue that George has. He spread all kinds of rumors…”

Before  she  had  finished,  there  was  a  knock  on  the  door  and  Glint
entered. The two girls were wanted downstairs, she said. Jijie had to break
off  then  and  there.  She  and  Weilong  went  downstairs  together,  chatting
lightly.

As  soon  as  the  pair  appeared  in  the  living  room,  the  others  burst  into
applause.  They  demanded  that  Weilong  sing.  She  tried  to  decline,  but
finally  gave  in  and  sang  “Burmese  Nights.”  When  she  had  finished  she
surreptitiously  searched  Madame  Liang’s  face;  her  aunt’s  hold  over  Lu
Zhaolin was, she could see, still uncertain. If Weilong stepped too far into
the limelight, if the company paid too much attention to her, she might well
incur the wrath of her aunt. She decided not to sing again.

The  garden  party  was  an  afternoon  tea,  and  by  seven  or  eight  in  the
evening the crowd had dispersed. Madame Liang and Weilong had been too
busy taking care of guests to eat anything, so they were ready for a meal.
Madame  Liang  felt  a  bit  guilty  about  Lu  Zhaolin,  so  she  was  being  very
kind to Weilong. Neither had much to say.

“The  chocolate  cake  wasn’t  very  good  today,”  remarked  Madame
Liang. “Remember, next time, to ask the Qiao family to lend us their cook
for a day.”

Weilong agreed. Madame Liang cut a slice of cold cow’s tongue, then
stared at it with a smile. A moment later she picked up her water glass; she
stared at it with a smile. Picking up the pepper shaker seemed to trigger a
further memory; the smile lines around her mouth grew deeper yet.

Weilong  sighed.  “A  woman  is  such  a  pitiful  thing!”  she  thought.  “A

man is only a little bit nice, and see how happy she is!”

Madame Liang glanced at Weilong sharply. “What are you smiling at?”

she demanded, barely suppressing her own smile.

Weilong was startled. “Did I smile?”

Behind Madame Liang stood a pine cupboard in which a silver plaque
was displayed, an award that she’d received for her donations to the Royal
Medical Society’s Hong Kong branch. It shone bright as a mirror. Weilong
caught a glimpse of her smiling reflection in the silver. She quickly wiped
off the smile.

“Liar! And such a child—invite a few people over, and see how happy
she  gets!”  Then,  smiling  secretly,  Madame  Liang  went  back  to  eating  her
slice of cow’s tongue.

Weilong had a new thought, and again the corners of her mouth lifted;
what  made  her  smile  was  what,  in  her  heart,  made  her  pretend  to  frown:
“What’s the matter with you? You’ve got good reason to be angry—why are
you  so  calm?  People  in  the  old  days  would  ‘dare  to  fume  but  dare  not
speak.’  You  don’t  even  dare  to  get  angry,  is  that  it?”  But  her  heart  had
slipped away from Liang and Lu as lightly as a dragonfly grazes the water,
before  carelessly  flying  off  somewhere  else.  Aunt  and  niece  had  each
invited an invisible guest: since there really were four at table, it was a most
companionable meal.

After  dinner,  Weilong  went  back  to  her  bedroom.  Glint  was  turning
down  the  bed.  She  folded  up  a  moon-white  nightgown  and  put  it  on  the
pillow. When she saw Weilong she said, “That George Qiao sure had eyes
for you!”

“How  bizarre,”  Weilong  said  with  a  sarcastic  smile.  “Qiao  must  be  an
amazing  fellow.  Everyone  gets  so  worried  if  he  talks  to  me  for  just  a  few
minutes.”

“That fellow, well, he’s not so amazing, but still it’s not a good idea to

lead him on.”

Weilong shrugged. “So who’s leading him on?”
“You lead him on, or he leads you—what’s the difference?”
Heading into the bathroom, Weilong said, “Yes, yes, you don’t need to
tell me. Zhou Jijie gave me an earful just now—told me all about his evil
ways. You must have heard everything through the door.”

She started to shut the bathroom door, but Glint wedged her foot in it.
“Miss,”  she  said,  “you  don’t  understand.  The  fact  that  he  plays  around
doesn’t matter that much. The bad thing’s that his father doesn’t like him.
His  mother  fell  out  of  favor  soon  after  they  got  married,  and  she  doesn’t
have any money to give him. His father has never taken him in hand, so he
makes no effort to study. Even now, with his father still around, George is

hard up, always strapped for  cash. When Sir  Cheng  Qiao dies,  he’ll  leave
behind  two  dozen  concubines  and  half  a  dozen  sons.  Even  the  favorites
won’t  get  much,  so  what  do  you  think  will  be  left  for  George?  And  he’s
good for nothing except playing around. He’s got tough times ahead.”

Weilong  was  silent.  She  looked  Glint  in  the  eye  for  quite  a  while  and

then she said, “Don’t worry. I may be foolish, but I’m not that foolish.”

Having  said  as  much,  she  really  did  try  to  be  careful.  George  didn’t
come  charging  into  the  Liang  household  again,  but  whenever  Weilong
attended  a  social  function,  he  was  sure  to  be  there.  Weilong  was  much
cooler  toward  him  than  she  had  been  when  they  first  met.  She  was  now
going  out  surprisingly  often;  Madame  Liang  wanted  her  out  of  the  house.
Madame Liang and Lu Zhaolin were hitting it off beautifully, and because
Weilong  and  Lu  Zhaolin  had  once  been  attracted  to  each  other,  Madame
Liang worried that her niece might resent her success. She also didn’t want
Zhaolin to be distracted. So she made sure that Weilong stayed out of sight,
at least for the time being.

But  good  things  never  come  without  problems,  and  just  at  this  point
Madame Liang’s old flame Situ Xie returned to Hong Kong. Although Situ
Xie was  no longer  youthful,  he was  even touchier  than  a young  man,  and
his suspicions were easily aroused. Madame Liang was not about to offend
an  old  friend,  just  for  the  sake  of  a  fling.  She  set  Lu  Zhaolin  aside,  and
focused instead on keeping Situ Xie happy.

One  night,  Weilong  and  Madame  Liang  went  to  a  banquet  together.  It
was crowded and the guests included both George Qiao and Situ Xie. When
the dinner was over, Madame Liang invited Situ Xie to her house to see the
new cherry-red glass tile she’d had installed in the bathroom. Since Situ Xie
was  the  head  of  a  Shantou  ceramics  company,  she  wanted  his  expert
opinion.  She  and  Weilong  rode  home  with  Situ  Xie  in  his  car.  Halfway
there, a heavy rain began to fall. It was then early summer, right at the start
of  the  plum-rain  season.  The  mountain  slopes  were  velvet-black,  and  the
dark, plush wind came in urgent bursts, squeezing the hot, white raindrops
into  a  round,  whirling  mass  as  big  as  a  cartwheel;  lit  up  by  the  car’s
headlights,  it  rolled  on  ahead  of  them  like  a  white  satin-covered  ball.  The
thick  trees  on  the  mountainside  leaned  over  and  shrank  together  into
another whirling mass, a green satin ball rolling behind the white one.

The three of them sat in the car, with Madame Liang in the middle. The
heat  was  too  much  for  Weilong,  so  she  leaned  against  the  seat  in  front  of

her, feeling the humid breeze. It blew on her, and she began to get tired, so
she  nestled  her  head  in  her  elbow.  This  reminded  her  of  one  of  George’s
little habits. When he had to make a bit of mental effort, he’d bury his face
in the crook of his arm and sit silent for a moment; then he’d lift his head
and  say,  with  a  smile:  “Right!  Now  I’ve  got  it!”  It  was  childlike,  and  it
filled  Weilong  with  an  almost  maternal  love.  She  wanted  to  kiss  the  short
hair on the back of his head, kiss the face that was making such an effort to
think,  kiss  the  wrinkled  sleeves  at  his  elbows.  Now  all  of  George’s
delightful little gestures came to mind, and her heart grew soft and warm.
Her heart grew hot, but her hands and feet were very cold. First hard, then
soft, a current of cold happiness raced through her body, while outside the
car window the rain blew hard, then soft, then hard again.

Sunk  in  reverie,  Weilong  was  paying  no  attention  to  the  conversation
between  Madame  Liang  and  Situ  Xie.  Madame  Liang  gave  her  a  nudge.
“Look, look at this!” she said. Then she thrust her wrist into Weilong’s face,
so  that  Weilong  could  admire  a  diamond  bracelet  that  was  a  full  three
inches  wide.  The  car’s  interior  light  hadn’t  been  switched  on,  but  the
bracelet  gleamed  so  brightly  that  it  made  Madame  Liang’s  red  fingernails
shine.  Weilong  gasped  in  admiration.  “He  gave  it  to  me,”  said  Madame
Liang. She turned her face back toward Situ Xie, pouting. “I’ve never seen
anyone so impatient, giving out jewelry when we haven’t even reached the
house!”

Weilong  held  Madame  Liang’s  wrist  and  admired  the  bracelet.  While
she was exclaiming over it, and in far less time than it takes to tell—faster
even  than  a  detective  whips  out  the  handcuffs  and  claps  them  onto  a
criminal—Situ  Xie  put  another  diamond  bracelet,  identical  to  the  first,
around  Weilong’s  own  wrist.  Weilong  was  too  startled  to  say  a  word.  She
fumbled  in  the  dark,  unable  to  find  the  clasp,  struggling  to  remove  the
bracelet.  In  her  impatience  she  started  pulling  at  it,  trying  to  force  it  over
her hand. Situ Xie quickly took her hand in his. “Miss Weilong, you can’t
refuse  me  this  honor.  Wait  a  moment,  and  I’ll  explain  the  whole  thing  to
you.  These  bracelets  come  as  a  pair,  and  I  couldn’t  bear  to  see  them
separated. One goes to your aunt, so this one has to go to you, doesn’t it?
Someday your aunt’s will be yours, so it all comes to the same thing. No,
no! Don’t take it off—give it to your aunt for safekeeping, if you like.”

“I would never dare to accept anything so valuable.”

“When one of your elders gives  you something,” said  Madame Liang,
“it is never wrong to accept it. A simple thank you will suffice!” Then, with
a light kick, she pressed her lips to Weilong’s ear. “Have you no sense?” she
hissed. “Do you have to carry on like some low-bred idiot?”

Weilong  controlled  her  feelings.  “Thank  you  very  much,”  she  said  to

Situ Xie, “but really…”

“Oh,  please  don’t  mention  it,”  Situ  Xie  said  over  and  over.  “After  all,
we’re  all  good  friends.”  And  he  squeezed  her  hand  a  few  times,  before
withdrawing  his  and  resuming  his  conversation  with  Madame  Liang.
Weilong couldn’t find a way to break in; she didn’t know what to do.

The car pulled up at the Liang mansion, the storm now blowing so hard
that  it  seemed  the  mountains  would  be  driven  into  the  sea.  None  of  them
had  brought  an  umbrella,  so  the  driver  honked  the  horn,  alerting  the
servants  to  come  down  with  umbrellas  to  escort  each  of  them  into  the
house.  The  white  leather  pumps  that  Madame  Liang  and  Weilong  wore
were  soaked  and  splattered;  at  each  step  they  squeaked  and  oozed.  No
sooner had Weilong reached the door than she ran upstairs.

“Wash your feet and change your shoes,” Madame Liang ordered, “then

come down for brandy. Otherwise, you might catch cold.”

Weilong  consented,  but  to  herself  she  thought,  “Stay  up  late  drinking

with you two? I’d have to be brave enough to eat a leopard!”

When she reached her room she locked herself in. She started the water
for  her  bath,  then  called  out  for  someone  to  tell  them  that  she’d  caught  a
cold and gone to bed. Glint knocked a few minutes later, with some aspirin.
Under the cover of the running water, Weilong pretended not to hear.

Her  room,  with  its  private  bath  and  little  balcony,  was  practically  a
separate apartment. Before going to bed, Weilong opened the glass door to
the balcony to make the room less stuffy. Luckily, the wind wasn’t blowing
in her direction, and not much rain came in. There was an outcrop opposite
the  balcony—as  if  the  mountain  had  reached  out  its  tongue  to  give  the
balcony  a  lick.  During  plum-rain  season,  the  trees  on  the  mountain  were
steeped in mist; the scent of green leaves was everywhere. Plantains, Cape
jasmine,  magnolia,  banana  trees,  camphor  trees,  sweet  flag,  ferns,
ivorywoods, palms, reeds, and tobacco, all growing too fast and spreading
too rapidly: it was ominous, with a whiff of something like blood in the air.
The  humidity  was  oppressive,  and  the  walls  and  furniture  were  slick  with
moisture.

Weilong lay on her bed. The bedding was gummy; the pillowcase ready
to grow moss. She had just had a bath, but already the humidity made her
wish  for  another.  She  tossed  and  turned;  she  was  painfully  troubled.  She
kept  thinking  about  Situ  Xie  and  the  change  in  his  behavior  toward  her.
He’d  always  been  interested  in  her,  but  he’d  never  been  so  forward—
certainly  not  in  the  presence  of  her  aunt.  Judging  from  his  performance
today, he must have reached an agreement with Madame Liang. Would he
offer  her  such  a  valuable  present  for  no  reason?  He  wasn’t  that  kind  of  a
person!  Having  thought  things  through  this  far,  Weilong  glanced  at  the
bracelet  on  her  dressing  table.  She  had  taken  it  off  and  tossed  it  there;  it
glittered  beneath  the  small  table  lamp.  She  sat  up  sharply.  “Better  put  it
away safely,” she thought. “No matter what, I must find a way to return it to
him. Losing it would be no fun.” She opened the closet and got out a little
leather case, then put the bracelet into it for safekeeping. The closet was set
into the wall and fitted out with rows of bright lightbulbs to prevent mildew
in the rainy season.

When Weilong opened the closet door again, she found herself thinking
back  to  the  spring,  and  how  nervous  she’d  been  that  evening  when  she’d
first arrived. She remembered how, after making sure no one could see her,
she had tried on all her new clothes. Since then three months had passed in
a flash; in that brief time she’d done a great deal of dressing up, eating out,
and  playing  around—she’d  even  made  something  of  a  name  for  herself.
Everything the average girl dreams of, she’d done. It was unlikely that all
this would come free of charge. From that perspective, the little drama that
had  just  unfolded  was  inevitable.  No  doubt  this  wasn’t  the  first  time  that
Madame  Liang  had  sacrificed  a  girl  in  order  to  please  Situ  Xie.  And
Madame Liang would be sure to require other sacrifices from her as well.
The only way to refuse would be to leave the house altogether.

Weilong  leaned  against  the  closet  door  and  watched  the  rain  on  the
balcony.  When  the  drops  of  rain  hit  the  cement  and  caught  a  bit  of  light,
they twirled around and shot out beams of silver light—long, long beams of
light,  like  the  silver  skirts  of  ballet  dancers.  Weilong  sighed.  After  three
months  of  this  life,  she  was  addicted.  If  she  wanted  to  leave  Madame
Liang’s house, she would have to find a rich man to marry. A husband who
was  both  rich  and  charming?  It  was  unlikely.  Plumping  for  a  man  with
money—that  had  been  Madame  Liang’s  approach.  Madame  Liang  had  a
clear head, and she was unabashedly materialistic: as a young woman, she’d

ignored the opinions of others and married a sixty-year-old tycoon, waiting
for him to die. He died all right but, sad to say, a bit late—Madame Liang
was old now, with a hungry heart that she could not fill. She needed love,
she needed it from lots and lots of people, but to a young person, her way of
looking for love seemed ridiculous! Weilong didn’t want to end up like that.
Her  thoughts  turned  to  George  Qiao.  After  her  emotions  had  been  so
deeply unsettled by the day’s unexpected turn of events, she felt she had no
strength  left:  she  had  to  give  up  the  battle  against  George  that  had  been
going on in her heart. She had to surrender to love. Maybe George wanted
nothing  more  than  a  moment’s  pleasure;  maybe  he  treated  all  women  this
way. But if he made a sincere declaration of love, she knew that she would
accept him. True, George hadn’t behaved very well in the past. He was too
smart, too detached; the people he knew didn’t understand him. Surrounded
by Hong Kong people, he lived like a foreigner. It was a good thing that he
was still young. If his wife loved him and believed in him, he was sure to
succeed.  He  didn’t  have  money,  but  the  Qiao  family  had  contacts
throughout Hong Kong. He’d find a way to make a living.

Weilong had changed her mind about George, and her tone changed too.
The next time they met, he felt it at once. That day, a group of young people
set  out  for  a  picnic  on  one  of  the  local  mountain  peaks.  Weilong  grew
fatigued along the way, and George, after arranging to meet the others at the
summit,  stayed  with  her  while  she  rested.  It  had  been  raining  for  the  past
several days and the rain had just ceased. The skies were overcast, and the
green peaks pierced the fog. Sitting with their feet hanging over the edge of
the  road, Weilong and George looked  down through  the  clouds  to  a misty
mountain slope below. Two or three blue-clad peasant women in coolie hats
were collecting tree limbs. Weilong felt a sort of swimming unreality, and
because  George  was  being  especially  gentle  and  kind  that  day,  and  was
leaning against her quietly as they sat, she felt even more dazed, almost as
if  she  were  dreaming.  She  was  wearing  white  slacks  and  a  copper-red
blouse with rusty green polka dots. A scarf of the same fabric had slipped
from  her  head,  revealing  her  long,  wavy  bangs.  She  picked  at  the  grass
blades.  “George,”  she  softly  asked,  “don’t  you  have  any  plans  for  the
future?”

“Of course I do. For instance, I plan to come and see you tonight, if the

moon is shining.”

Weilong’s  expression  changed.  Before  she  could  speak,  George
continued. “I plan to come and see you because I have something important
to tell you. I’d like to know what you think about marriage.”

Weilong’s  heart  did  a  somersault.  Then  George  said,  “I  have  no
intention of getting married. Even if I could get married, I wouldn’t be any
good at it. I wouldn’t be a satisfactory husband—not till I’m fifty, at least.
Weilong,  I’m  telling  you  this  straight  out  because  you’ve  never  played
games  with  me.  You’re  too  good—really,  Weilong,  you  are.  You  let  your
aunt exploit you like this—and for whose benefit? When you’re exhausted,
all  worn  out,  do  you  think  she’ll  still  want  to  keep  you  around?  Weilong,
you’re worn out. You need a little happiness.”

With that, he leaned down to kiss her, but her face stiffened. “Weilong, I
can’t promise you marriage, and I can’t promise you love. All I can promise
you is happiness.”

This was a far cry from what Weilong had expected. She was confused,
as  if  she’d  suddenly  tripped  and  fallen  backward  a  long  way.  She  pressed
her hands against her temples, and turned away with a tiny smile. “What a
tight-fisted guy!”

“I’m offering you happiness. Is there anything in the world that’s harder

to find than happiness?”

“You’re  offering  me  happiness?  You’re  tormenting  me,  more  than

anyone ever has!”

“I’m tormenting you? Is that so?”
He  wrapped  his  arm  around  her  tightly  and  kissed  her  hard  on  the
mouth. Just then, the sun came out and blazed right into their faces. George
removed his lips, pulled a pair of dark sunglasses from his pocket. He put
them on. “Look,” he grinned, “the weather’s clearing up! Tonight the moon
is going to shine.”

Weilong grabbed his coat collar, lifted her eyes, and stared into his face
imploringly. She tried as hard as she could to find his eyes behind the dark
lenses,  but  all  she  could  see  there  was  her  own  pale,  shrunken  reflection.
She  searched  for  a  long  time,  then  suddenly  dropped  her  gaze.  George
clasped  her  tightly  around  her  shoulders,  and  she  buried  her  face  in  his
chest.  He  discovered  that  she  was  trembling  so  hard  that  her  teeth  were
chattering. “Weilong,” he asked softly, “what are you so afraid of?”

“I—” she stuttered, “I—I’m afraid of myself! Maybe I’m going crazy!”

She gasped loudly and started to cry.

George  gave  her  a  gentle  shake,  but  she  continued  to  tremble  so

violently that he could not hold her still.

Then she said, “No, I’m not crazy! What you say to me makes no sense

—why on earth do I listen?”

There’s  an  English  saying  in  Hong  Kong:  “Hong  Kong  skies,  Hong
Kong girls.” It’s an apt comparison. Hong Kong girls are just as capricious,
just  as  unpredictable,  as  the  island’s  steamy  climate.  And  the  weather
seemed  to  be  listening  to  George,  just  like  a  girl:  that  night,  the  moon
shone.

George  came  by  moonlight,  and  he  left  by  moonlight.  The  moon  was
still  high  in  the  sky  when  he  climbed  from  Weilong’s  balcony  to  the  cliff
face  nearby,  clinging  to  the  crooked  tree  branches  as  he  went.  The  woods
were still thick with humidity. It was hot and damp, the insects chirped, the
frogs gurgled. The entire hollow was like a huge cauldron that was slowly
being heated by the dark blue blaze of the moon, heated till you could hear
the water boiling. Even the firewood gatherers rarely came along this crest
of the hill. George stepped cautiously. He was afraid of snakes and carried a
stick. He took a step, pushed the tall grass back with his stick, swept it with
the  beam  of  his  flashlight,  then  quickly  turned  off  the  light.  Grass  burrs
stuck to his pants in itchy, prickly clumps. As he walked along, he heard a
long, mournful wail that rose up from deep in the hills. It started suddenly
and stopped as quickly—like a strangled cry for help. George knew it was
only an owl, but fear chilled him to the bone. He stopped, listening intently.
After a moment’s rest, the wailing started again. George slipped; he almost
fell down the slope. Grabbing a lemon tree, he steadied himself. Maybe it
would be better to go across the garden, he thought. The gardener won’t be
there till daybreak, and that’s awhile yet. Clinging to vines and creepers, he
clambered down the cliff. George wasn’t particularly athletic, but he’d been
getting  in  and  out  of  scrapes  all  his  life,  and  this  short  scramble  was  well
within his abilities. He climbed down till he was about ten feet above level
ground,  then  hunched  over  to  jump.  He  landed  on  the  grass  in  the  rear
garden.

He walked around the corner of the veranda to the front lawn. Someone
was  standing  by  the  little  iron  gate;  he  flinched  in  surprise.  The  person’s
back  was  clearly  visible  in  the  moonlight:  a  white  linen  blouse  and  wide
black  trousers  of  lightly  lacquered  silk;  hair  braided  and  coiled  up  on  the
head, serpent-like, because of the heat, the white neck surging naked above

the collar. That small figure with the slender waist and bold curves—one he
always watched, and remembered—it had to be Glint.

“The  road  down  the  hill,”  George  thought.  “It’s  famous  as  a  lover’s
lane. In the summertime, people come and go all night long. The girl must
have a date.” He hesitated briefly, then stole up behind her. But Glint was
on  high  alert;  the  moment  she  sensed  someone  at  her  back,  she  whipped
around, confronting him head-on.

George fell back a step. “You scared me!” he laughed.
Glint’s hand fluttered at her chest while she caught her breath. “I’m the
one who should be saying that! My goodness, what a lot of trouble you are!
You could scare a ghost to death!” Squinting, she looked him up and down
and snickered. “I know what you’re up to.”

George brazened it out with a smile. “Your Young Mistress asked me to

come. Didn’t she tell you?”

“If  she  asked  you,  it  would  be  open  and  aboveboard,  and  of  course
she’d want you to spend the night. What are you up to, sneaking away like
this?”

George reached  over and touched  a stray hair  at  the  back of her head.
“Your braid wasn’t pulled tight. It’s about to come apart.” His hand moved
down her neck, then down her spine.

Glint  twisted  away,  shaking  her  head.  She  heaved  a  long  sigh.  “I’d
scream,”  she  said,  “but  the  mistress,  with  that  terrible  temper  of  hers—
she’d  throw  a  fit,  without  minding  the  consequences;  the  young  lady’s
reputation would be harmed…”

“Oh, I suppose you could bear it if the young lady’s reputation got hurt
—but  your  reputation,  now  that’s  another  matter.  That’s  what’s  stopping
you.  Noble,  virtuous  sister,  whatever  are  you  doing  in  the  garden  so  very
late at night?”

Instead  of  rising  to  the  bait,  Glint  gave  him  a  wolfish  glare.  And  she
reproached him sternly: “This time you’ve really gone too far. What’s your
grudge  against  the  Liang  people?  Even  after  what  you  did  to  Glance,  you
won’t stop—you’ve got to come after her as well? And she’s not at all the
same as Glance!”

“Ah, so you’re going to avenge them? Waylay me in the dark, kill me,

take all my money?”

“And how much money do you have anyway? As if I would touch it!”

Glint turned and walked off.

George scurried after her. He grabbed her around the waist. “Dear sister,

don’t be angry. Here’s a little something, please accept it.”

With his free hand, he reached into his trousers pocket and pulled out a
roll of banknotes, planning to stuff it into her pocket. He fumbled around in
her white linen fitted top, searching for the inside pocket, but in his haste he
could not find it.

Glint  slapped  his  hand  sharply.  She  scolded:  “Forget  it!  Do  you  really

think I want your bribe?”

George now tried in earnest to pull away from her, but in the confusion
he  couldn’t—Glint’s  fitted  top  was  too  tight.  After  several  moments’
struggle, he finally managed to wrest his hand free.

“I’m so very sorry,” Glint remarked snippily as she did up the fastening
of her top. “We servants aren’t like you ladies and gentlemen; we haven’t
got  so  much  leisure  for  lolling  about  in  the  open  air,  savoring  the
moonlight.” She headed toward the house.

George followed close behind her, and while she was opening the side
door  with  her  key  he  came  up  behind,  resting  his  face  on  the  nape  of  her
neck. Unwilling to call out, for fear of waking the household, Glint gnashed
her teeth; she struck backward with her right foot, kicking George’s knee as
hard  as  she  could.  He  cried  out  once,  then  stifled  his  voice.  Again  Glint
struck, her left foot kicking him squarely in the left knee. George let go of
her,  and  she  walked  through  the  door.  He  went  in  too,  watching  her  sway
gracefully  up  the  stairs.  There  in  the  light  of  the  hall  lamp,  he  took  out  a
handkerchief and, with a frown, dusted the black spots off his knees. Then
he closed the door and followed Glint up the stairs.

In  another  corner  of  the  house,  Weilong  lay  curled  on  her  bed  in  the
heavy  darkness,  no  lamp  lit.  She  lay  sleeping,  motionless,  but  her  body
seemed to  be in  a car  on the  highway, with  a  soft  summer  breeze  tapping
rhythmically on her cheeks. But it wasn’t a summer breeze, it was George’s
kisses. Weilong lay like this longer than she could tell, then sat up abruptly.
She  put  on  slippers  and  a  dressing  gown  and  went  out  onto  the  little
balcony. The moon had already set, but she had been dipped in moonlight,
steeped in moonlight, till her whole body was transparent. She leaned back
against the louvered door: had the balcony been a black lacquer tea tray, she
would have been the inlaid flower.

She was surprised to find her mind so clear—never before had she been
so completely awake. Now, as she probed her feelings, she saw why she felt

such  stubborn  love  for  George.  This  abject  infatuation  of  hers  had  been
inspired  by  his  very  real  charm,  of  course;  but  in  the  end  she  loved  him
simply  because  he  did  not  love  her.  George  had  learned  from  experience,
perhaps, this secret way to conquer women’s unreasoning hearts. He’d said
many tender things, but never that he loved her. And yet now she knew that
George did love  her. There were,  of course,  some  differences between his
love  and  hers—and  of  course  his  love  had  lasted  only  a  moment.  But  her
self-respect had sunk so low that she was easily satisfied. Tonight, George
had  loved  her.  The  memory  of  this  little  happiness  was  all  hers;  no  one
could take it away. Madame Liang, Situ Xie, and the rest of that tiger-eyed
crowd—they  could  do  what  they  liked.  She  had  a  new  kind  of  security,  a
new  sense  of  power  and  freedom.  She  was  grateful  that  George  hadn’t
married her. She’d heard about the man who went on an excursion to Mount
Lu, and came back with half a dozen clay jugs: the jugs were filled with the
mountain’s world-famous white clouds, which he was going to release one
after  another  to  ornament  his  garden.  People  who  marry  for  love  are  as
foolish as the man with the cloud-filled jars! George was right, George was
always right. She leaned against the railing, and like George, she buried her
face in the crook of her elbow. Again it came—that feeling of tingling ice-
cold happiness, like golden bells ringing all over her body, the feeling she
had  when  he  clasped  her  shoulders  tightly.  Wanting  to  hug  something
herself, she gave a little whistle, and a white poodle came bounding out of
the room wagging its tail. Murmuring softly, Weilong hugged the dog.

It was about four o’clock. The sky had begun to grow pale, but it was
still full of stars, like a sheet of blue-green writing paper dusted with gold.
Along the mountain face, the insects had fallen silent. There was a noiseless
hush  in  the  air.  Suddenly,  she  heard  footsteps—someone  below  walking
toward  the  balcony.  What  a  devoted  gardener,  Weilong  thought.  It’s  not
even  daybreak,  and  here  he  is  already.  Her  heart  was  light  and  merry,
playful like a little child’s, and she pointed to the person in the distance, and
whispered teasingly in the dog’s ear: “Who do you think that is? Now just
who do you think that is?” The dog began to bark.

Weilong looked more closely, and her heart started to pound—why did
the  gardener  have  such  a  monstrously  swollen  shape?  Daybreak  comes
quickly  in  the  tropics,  and  when  the  sky  grew  bright,  the  hazy  oversize
shadow resolved into two people walking together, wrapped in an embrace
so close that they seemed to be one. When they heard the dog barking, they

looked  up  and  saw  Weilong.  There  was  no  way  for  them  to  hide—right
away she saw that it was George and Glint. Weilong had been holding the
dog’s  lower  jaw;  now  her  grip  tightened  to  a  choke.  The  dog  writhed
furiously in her arms, then wriggled free and jumped down, yelping as it ran
back into the room.

Weilong  ran,  stumbling,  after  the  dog.  Once  she  was  in  the  room  she
stood  stock-still;  her  arms  hung  stiffly  at  her  sides.  She  stood  there  for  a
while, then fell onto the bed, arms still locked to her sides; she’d fallen flat
on  her  face,  but  she  didn’t  feel  anything.  She  lay  like  that,  face  pressed
downward, motionless, for the rest of the night. Gradually the sheet under
her face grew damp. Icy tears soaked in under her shoulders.

The  next  day,  when  she  got  up,  she  was  so  cold  that  her  whole  body
ached and her head felt swollen. The clock in her room had stopped, but the
sunshine outside was bright and yellow—she couldn’t tell if it was morning
or afternoon. She sat on the edge of her bed for a long time. Then she stood
up and went to look for Glint.

Glint was in the downstairs washroom rinsing out some things. She had
plastered  an  entire  wall  with  handkerchiefs—apple  green,  amber  yellow,
smoky blue, peach red, bamboo green—square upon square, some lined up
neatly,  others  askew.  The  effect  was  almost  painterly.  Then  she  saw
Weilong in the mirror, and her face froze. She tried to muster a smile, but
Weilong pulled a sopping towel out of the sink and slapped her with it: one
slashing  sweep,  right  in  the  face,  drenching  her  from  head  to  foot.  Glint
cried  out  and  turned  away,  raising  her  hands  in  defense,  and  the  towel
struck her hands as well. The towel was thick and sodden, so heavy it made
Weilong’s arm ache. She wrung it out with both hands, then slapped away
furiously;  Glint  dodged  the  blows  without  making  any  effort  to  argue,
apologize,  or  retaliate.  Even  so,  there  was  a  considerable  noise  in  the
washroom, and when the junior maids came running in, they were stopped
dead in their tracks, unable to figure out what was going on.

Two  of  them  grew  restive;  they  huddled  together  and  muttered,  “A
legitimate master doesn’t trample on us like this—where did this Miss come
from,  that  she  has  such  a  temper!  And  Glint,  you  hardly  ever  give  in  to
others—what’s wrong with you today?”

Glint sighed. “Leave her alone! She’s the one to be sorry for!”
Her words pierced Weilong to the heart. She walloped Glint as hard as
she  could.  Then,  dropping  the  towel,  she  collapsed;  sitting  on the  edge of

the bathtub, she buried her face in her hands and burst into tears.

By  then,  the  commotion  had  reached  Madame  Liang’s  ears.  When
Madame  Liang  arrived  at  the  scene,  Glint  was  kneeling  on  the  tiled  floor
mopping  up  the  puddles.  As  she  mopped,  water  dripped  from  her  own
clothes.  “What’s  going  on?”  Madame  Liang  demanded.  Glint  made  no
reply.  Weilong  was  questioned,  but  wouldn’t  say  a  word.  All  the  junior
maids who’d been watching said they didn’t know why Miss was so angry.
Holding  her  questions  for  the  moment,  Madame  Liang  ordered  a  maid  to
take  Weilong  upstairs  to  rest.  Then  she  called  Glint  into  her  private  room
for a detailed examination.

There  was  no  disguising  the  situation:  Glint  had  to  explain,  in  broken
sentences,  how  Miss  had  made  a  date  with  George,  and  then  she  herself,
upon hearing voices in Miss’s bedroom, had grown suspicious. She hadn’t
dared to report it, for fear of causing a scene. Instead, she’d kept watch in
the  garden,  planning  to  catch  George  as  he  was  leaving  and  get  to  the
bottom of things. But then Miss had found out, and not taking kindly to the
thought of having tabs kept on her, she’d burst out in a rage against Glint.

Madame Liang listened and nodded, without saying a word; she had by
now  figured  out  the  essentials  of  the  true  situation.  After  sending  Glint
away,  she  sat  thinking,  her  anger  growing  till  her  face  turned  purple.  She
had been picking her teeth with a toothpick, and now she bit down so that it
snapped. Grunting, she spat the end of the toothpick out. This George Qiao
was an evil star in her astral house, forever playing tricks on her. She’d tried
using Glance to hook him, but he’d merely swallowed the bait and gone on
swimming about, free as he pleased. After that, she’d decided to take a loss,
and  to  ignore  him.  But  she  couldn’t  keep  Glance,  not  after  all  the  ruckus
he’d kicked up, and when Glance left it was like losing both of her hands.
So  she’d  fired  up  the  cooking  pot  again,  and  devoted  all  her  energies  to
training Weilong. Putting her whole heart into the effort, she’d brought the
girl along till she showed some promise. Weilong was just now making her
debut, she was ten times more valuable than before, and now George turned
up,  once  again,  to  feast  on  the  fruits  of  others’  toil.  Even  this  was  not
enough; he’d casually taken Glint too. Madame Liang had lost a queen and
a pawn. All her best personnel has been netted by this fellow—how could
she not be angry?

Still,  Madame  Liang  knew  enough  not  to  lose  sight  of  what  really
mattered. She pondered for a while and then, her rage in check, proceeded

with a slow, measured grace to Weilong’s room. Weilong was lying with her
face to the wall, and Madame Liang sat down on the edge of the bed. After
a moment’s silence, she said in a faltering tone, “Weilong, how can you do
this to me?” She dabbed her eyes with a handkerchief. Weilong was silent.
“How  do  you  expect  me  to  explain  things  to  your  father?”  said  Madame
Liang.  “While  you’re  living  here  with  me,  I’m  responsible  for  your
behavior. It seems I’ve been too trusting. I’ve been negligent, and now this
has happened!” She sighed. “You certainly have flouted my authority!”

Weilong  knew  that  she  was  caught,  and  she  let  her  aunt  have  her  say.
Her  regrets  were  past  repair.  She  steadied  herself  and  gave  a  simple,
straightforward  reply:  “My  mistakes  aren’t  your  fault.  I’ll  go  back  to
Shanghai.  If  there’s  gossip,  I’ll  take  the  blame  myself.  Of  course  I’m  not
going to involve you in this.”

Madame Liang stroked her chin. “You say you’ll go back, but this isn’t
the time to go back. Of course, I don’t mean to detain you. I would be very
happy, for my own sake, to send you back to your father; then I’d be free of
this burden, and all these worries. But you know how people talk, and it’s
all too likely that before you even reached home, rumors would have come
to  your  father’s  ears.  You  know  what  a  terrible  temper  he  has.  If  you  go
back  now,  that  will  only  prove  what  people  are  saying.  Your  health  has
always  been  weak—how  can  you  bear  your  father’s  constant  displeasure,
day after day?”

Weilong  was  silent.  Madame  Liang  sighed.  “Blame  this,  blame  that—
but in the end the blame’s on you because of the scene you made in front of
the servants. You’re in a fix, and you’ve done it to yourself! Here you are
all  grown  up,  but  you  behave  like  a  child,  pay  no  attention  to  your  own
reputation—how are you going to face others now?”

Weilong  blushed,  before  smiling  bitterly.  “Aunt  will  have  to  forgive
me,” she said. “I’m still young and reckless. When I’ve reached Aunt’s age,
then maybe, just maybe, I’ll know how to fall in love with grace and style!”
Madame  Liang  responded  with  a  sarcastic  laugh.  “If,  at  my  age,  you
still have the opportunity to fall in love, that will be surprising indeed. You
must have noticed that the average woman from the middle class and below,
once  she’s  past  thirty  or  forty  is  nothing  but  an  old  crone.  I  have  a  nice
place. I look after myself. Otherwise, I’d have turned old a long time ago.
But you—you don’t protect your own reputation. You’ve ruined your own

prospects—an upper-class match will be out of reach, and there’s no telling
where you’ll end up!”

These were words to hurt the ears and pain the heart. Weilong covered
her face with her hands, just as if her powdery white, inky black good looks
had already been leached away by the years that stream by like water.

Madame  Liang  twisted  around,  propping  her  elbow  on  Weilong’s
pillow. “For a woman, there’s nothing more important than her reputation,”
she  said  in  a  low  voice.  “When  I  use  the  word  ‘reputation,’  I  mean
something a bit different from a fusty old scholar’s idea. These days, people
who are even a little bit modern don’t care that much about chastity. When
a young lady goes out and mixes at banquets and parties, there’s bound to
be  a  certain  amount  of  gossip.  That  kind  of  talk,  the  more  it  spreads,  the
more  it  stirs  up  interest,  the  more  it  increases  your  prestige.  It  certainly
won’t harm your future. The one thing that must be avoided at all costs is
this:  to  love  someone  who  doesn’t  love  you,  or  who  loves  you  and  drops
you. A woman’s bones can’t withstand a fall like that!

“In a situation like the one today, people who know the inside story will
say that you run off and do whatever pops into your head, just like a child.
But  if  outsiders  come  to  hear  of  it,  their  poisonous  tongues  will  say  you
scrapped  with  a  maid  over  George  Qiao.  Now  that  would  be  unpleasant,
wouldn’t it?”

Weilong  sighed  heavily.  “Well,  I  can’t  do  anything  about  it.  Anyway,

I’m going back. I don’t want to see Hong Kong ever again!”

Madame  Liang  furrowed  her  brow.  “The  same  old  tune!  You  keep
saying  you’ll  go  back  to  Shanghai,  as  if  going  home  would  solve
everything.  It’s  not  that  simple.  Of  course  you  can  do  as  like—you  have
your freedom! Still I’m worried about you; your father won’t make life easy
for  you  at  home.  This  is  no  time  for  sulking.  If  you  want  to  get  your
strength  back,  you  have  to  make  George  Qiao  submit.  Once  he’s
surrendered  completely,  then  you  can  drop  him—or  keep  him  around  for
amusement’s sake, that would show true skill! If you run away now, you’ll
be making it too easy for him!”

Weilong smiled wanly. “Aunt, George and I are finished.”
“You  think  there’s  no  hope  left?  That’s  because,  from  the  very
beginning,  your  attitude  toward  him  has  been  all  wrong.  You’re  too
straightforward. He’s sure there’s no one in your heart but him, so he’s not
serious and doesn’t bother to take you seriously either. You should arrange

to  spend  more  time  with  other  people;  that  way  he’ll  be  on  edge  all  the
time. He doesn’t think much of you, but there are plenty of others who do
—”

Weilong could see that she was working her way, in roundabout fashion,
to  the  same  old  appeal  on  Situ  Xie’s  behalf.  She  struggled  to  suppress  a
little  burst  of  laughter.  “Fool  that  I  am,”  she  thought,  “I’m  not  yet  such  a
fool as that.” If, after falling into George’s trap, she now turned around and
fell into Situ Xie’s, was that likely to make George respect her? She sat up
straight, feet bare on the floor, with her head bowed. Smoothing her tangled
hair  with  both  hands,  she  slowly  pushed  it  back  from  her  brows.  “Thank
you, Aunt, for thinking things through so carefully for me. But I still think I
should go back.”

Madame Liang sat up straight also. “You’re quite sure then?”
Weilong concurred, her voice low.
Madame  Liang  stood  up  and  firmly  laid  her  two  hands  on  Weilong’s
shoulders. She looked deeply into her eyes. “When you came you were one
kind of person. Now you are another kind of person. You have changed and
your  home  must  change  along  with  you.  You  can  try  to  go  back  to  your
previous life, but you might not be able to.”

“I know I’ve changed. I didn’t much like myself before, and now I like

myself even less. I’m going back because I want to be a new person.”

Upon hearing this, Madame Liang fell silent for a while. Then, bending
from  the  waist,  she  solemnly  kissed  Weilong  on  the  forehead  and  left  the
room. The gesture, with all its Catholic-style theatrics, appeared to have no
effect on Weilong. She thrust both hands up into her hair again, and stared
into space. Her face bore the trace of a smile, but her eyes were dead.

As soon as she’d left the room, Madame Liang telephoned George and
told  him  they  had  something  important  to  discuss.  George  knew  that  he’d
been  found  out  and,  as  per  usual,  gave  lots  of  reasons  why  he  couldn’t
come. So Madame Liang scared him: “Weilong is in tears and wants to go
back  to  Shanghai,  but  her  parents  are  sure  to  take  this  up.  Her  family  in
Shanghai will be hiring a lawyer to speak to you, and then it will be a big
case! Your father, once he loses his temper, will clamp down hard on you.
And since  Weilong met you at  my  place,  if  this gets  out,  it’s not  going  to
help my reputation either, which is why I’ve been trying to reach you—to
see  if  there’s  some  solution.  Who  would  have  guessed  you’d  take  it  so

calmly?  The  emperor  does  not  worry—and  that’s  what  worries  his
advisers!”

George came, but he was smiling. “I’m no expert on the Chinese, but on
this  aspect  of  Chinese  custom  and  lore,  I’ve  done  my  homework.  If
Weilong’s  family  wants  to  talk  with  me,  it’ll  only  be  to  pressure  me  to
marry her! Making this a public matter is the last thing they’d want.”

Madame  Liang  stared  him  in  the  eye.  “Marry  her!  Are  you  willing  to

marry her?”

“Weilong has her points.”
“Answer me honestly. You can’t marry her.”
“Since you know, why are you asking? I don’t have the right to marry as
I  please.  I  don’t  have  any  money  and  I’m  used  to  the  good  life.  Nature
apparently intended me to be an imperial son-in-law.”

Madame Liang stabbed him with her finger. “I always knew you for a

money-loving materialist!” she scolded.

The two of them talked over the problem of getting Weilong to change
her mind. By now, George realized that the threat of legal action had been
made up by Madame Liang. His first step, in order to defuse the situation,
was to render a full account of his behavior, and bare his heart to her. They
talked  through  the  night,  and  Madame  Liang  finally  got  an  answer  that
satisfied her.

The  next  day,  George’s  calls  to  Weilong  rang  the  phone  off  the  hook,
and  a  steady  stream  of  bouquets  arrived  for  her,  each  with  a  note  tucked
inside. Weilong hurried down the hillside to the city to ask about the boat
schedule  and  bought  a  ticket  that  same  day.  Madame  Liang’s  attitude  was
one  of  strict  noninterference,  hearing  nothing,  asking  nothing.  Weilong
hadn’t taken the car—instead she’d caught a bus at the bottom of the hill—
and when she was on her way back up again, rain started coming down in
buckets.  The  water  swept  smoothly  down  the  steep  asphalt  road,  and
Weilong wrung out her dress as she walked, but no sooner had she wrung it
out,  than  it  was  drenched  again.  For  the  past  two  days  she’d  been  on  the
edge of catching a cold; now she was chilled through and through. Once she
got home she fell ill, first the flu and then pneumonia.

Her  temperature  ran  high,  and  she  was  feverishly  anxious  to  return
home. When she was sick at home, the room wasn’t crowded with flowers
from friends, the way this one was, but there was something more beautiful
than  flowers:  a  glass  globe  on  her  father’s  desk  that  he  used  as  a

paperweight—it would be given to her to hold, to cool her burning hands.
There  were  tiny  red,  blue,  and  purple  flowers  all  through  the  ball,  neatly
arranged in a simple pattern. It was very heavy in her hand. Thinking of it
reminded her of everything in her life that seemed solid, substantial, reliable
—her home; the black iron bed that she shared with her sister; the quilt on
the  bed,  made  of  coarse  red-and-white  cloth;  the  old-fashioned  boxwood
dressing table; the darling little peach-shaped ceramic jar that shone red in
the  sunlight  and  was  filled  with  talcum  powder;  the  fashion-girl  calendar
tacked  up  on  the  wall,  the  girl’s  arms  covered  with  phone  numbers  her
mother  had  scribbled  in  a  thick  pencil  script,  numbers  for  the  tailor,  the
employment agency, the soy-milk vender, and two different aunts. Twisting
her  hands  in  the  sheets,  Weilong  thought  about  nothing  but  going  home,
going  home,  going  home,  but  the  more  she  wanted  to  go,  the  more  her
illness  lingered.  By  the  time  her  condition  had  started  to  improve,  Hong
Kong’s incessantly rainy summer was over; it was fall, bracing and bleak.

Weilong was smitten with doubt—could she have fallen ill on purpose?
Was she unconsciously unwilling to go home, seeking to delay her return?
It was easy enough to say that she’d go back, become a new person, start a
new life, and so on; but she no longer was the simple girl she’d once been.
Go to school, then go out and get a job: perhaps this wasn’t the best path for
someone like her—pretty, but without much ability. Of course she’d have to
get married. A new life meant a new man. A new man? She’d lost all her
self-confidence  because  of  George;  she  couldn’t  cope  with  other  people
now. The minute George had stopped loving her, she was in his power. She
knew  very  well  that  he  was  only  an  ordinary  playboy,  that  there  was
nothing  especially  terrifying  about  him—the  terrifying  thing  was  the
passion, raging and wild beyond words, that he inspired in her.

She  lay  on  her  bed  looking  at  the  sky  through  the  window.  The
afternoon  sun  shone  brilliantly,  the  sky  a  cold  metallic  white,  cutting  the
eyes  like  a  knife.  The  air  grew  chilly,  and  a  bird  flew  toward  the
mountaintop. High in the white sky, the dark bird gave a mournful cry, as if
cut by the blade of the knife; then it dropped down over the mountain.

Weilong closed her eyes. Ah, George! One day he would need her, but
by then she’d have lived in the narrow confines of some other household for
too long. She’d have adapted to that place, her new flesh enmeshed in the
fence  around  her  life—no  way  to  pull  it  free.  If,  at  that  point,  George
wanted her back, it would be too late.

Suddenly,  she  decided  not  to  leave—no  matter  what,  she  would  not
leave. Then she went on changing her mind every five minutes: leave, don’t
leave,  leave,  don’t  leave.  Lying  on  her  bed,  she  rolled  back  and  forth
between  the  two  extremes,  her  heart  frying  in  hot  oil.  Seeking  relief  from
the  pain,  she  rushed  off,  the  moment  she  was  well  enough  to  leave  the
house,  and  booked  her  passage.  Later,  as  she  was  returning  home,  with
darkness falling and the wind shuffling through the dwarf bamboos, the air
grew sharp with cold. The sea beyond the bamboos, and the sky beyond the
sea, were already gray and ocher; all along the road, in the gathering gloom,
the  ten-foot-high ivorywood  trees  bore  their  red  flowers,  high  and  low,  as
big as bowls.

As  Weilong  walked,  a  car  came  from  behind;  it  drove  right  up  to  her,
then  stopped.  Weilong  recognized  George’s  car  but  did  not  turn  her  head;
staring  straight  ahead,  she  increased  her  pace.  George  followed  slowly  in
the car, down a long stretch of road. Weilong had only just recovered from
her illness and was still a little weak; soon she was sweating with the effort
and had to stop and rest. The car also stopped. Weilong guessed that George
wanted a chance to clear everything up, but when he didn’t say a word, she
glanced  over.  One  of  his  arms  was  resting  across  the  top  of  the  steering
wheel,  and  he  was  slumped  against  it,  motionless.  Weilong  saw  him,  and
pain tugged at her heart. Tears flowed down her face as she began to walk
faster.  This  time  George  did  not  follow.  At  the  next  bend  in  the  road,  she
turned back to look: his car was still there. Night had fallen, and the whole
world  looked  like  a  gray  Christmas  card,  everything  shadowy  and  vague
except the ivorywoods’ enormous red flowers—simple, primitive, as big as
bowls, as big as buckets.

When  she  got  back  to  the  house,  Weilong  asked  where  she  could  find
Madame Liang, and was directed to the small study. She went straight there.
The study was lit by a single small aquamarine desk lamp. Weilong sat at a
distance from her aunt, in a yellow chair, and neither spoke for a long while.
The  room  was  full  of  the  strong,  almond-extract  scent  of  Cutex.  Madame
Liang had just finished painting her nails and was stiffly holding her fingers
out  to  dry.  Her  snow-white  hands  looked  as  if  they’d  been  tortured  in  a
finger clamp, the smashed fingertips dripping blood.

“Aunt,”  Weilong  slowly  asked,  not  looking  at  Madame  Liang,  “is

George’s not marrying due to financial reasons?”

“It’s  not  that  he  doesn’t  have  enough  money  to  get  married.  The  Qiao
family  isn’t  so  poor  that  they  can’t  afford  to  support  a  daughter-in-law.
George’s problem is that he’s proud and he’s set his sights higher; he wants
his  own  place  after  he’s  married,  since  that  would  be  more  comfortable.
Besides, the Qiao family is extremely complicated, and any daughter-in-law
has a rough time of it there. If his wife had money, the two of them could
avoid all sorts of provocations, all those ugly words and ugly faces.”

“Then he wants to marry a young lady with a big dowry.”
Madame Liang said nothing.
Weilong hung her head and continued in a tiny voice. “I don’t have any

money, but… I can earn money.”

Madame  Liang  looked  at  her  quizzically,  biting  her  lips  and  smiling

slightly.

Weilong’s  face  went  red.  She  continued:  “Why  can’t  I  earn  money?  I

didn’t say anything to Situ Xie and he gave me that bracelet.”

Laughter rose in Madame Liang’s throat, and as she laughed she pointed
a  bloodred  finger  at  Weilong,  unable,  for  a  moment,  to  get  a  word  out.
Finally she said, “Look at this child, fancy her remembering Situ Xie at this
point!  He  was  once  very  kind  to  you,  but  you  were  so  vehement  in  your
refusal, as if a diamond bracelet could bite you. If I hadn’t acted quickly he
probably  would  have  been  quite  offended.  And  now  you  want  to  ask  him
for something. With a young lady so apt to balk at anything big, he won’t
know what to give—candy, maybe, or roses!”

Weilong hung her head. She sat in the dark, saying nothing.
“You  shouldn’t  think  that  just  because  a  person  is  reasonably  good-
looking,  knows  how  to  make  chitchat  and  sing  a  few  English  songs,  that
people are going to come running to give her stacks and stacks of money.
Speaking  as  a  member  of  the  family,  and  without  mincing  my  words,  I’d
say you are too bashful, too weak, and too bad-tempered; you’re indecisive,
and you get too emotionally involved—you’re not at all suited to this sort of
thing.”

Weilong let out a long, slow sigh. “Give me a chance to learn!”
“You do have a lot to learn, that’s for sure! Well, why not give it a try.”
And  Weilong  did  try.  She  gave  it  her  best  effort,  and  with  Madame
Liang  at  her  side  to  offer  expert  advice,  the  results  were  nothing  short  of
excellent. At Christmastime, there was an item in the South China Morning
Post announcing the engagement of George Qiao and Ge Weilong. On the

day  of  the  formal  engagement,  Situ  Xie  sent  a  very  impressive  gift,  and
even George Qiao’s father, Sir Cheng Qiao, gave Weilong a wristwatch of
white gold inlaid with diamonds. When Weilong went to offer her thanks in
person, the old man was so pleased that he bought her a mink stole. Then,
because  he  was  afraid  of  displeasing  Madame  Liang,  he  bought  her  an
ermine stole.

George  was  still  apprehensive  about  the  marriage,  but  Madame  Liang
gave  him  a  talking  to.  “You  should  make  the  best  of  things!  You  want  to
marry  a  rich  girl,  but  you’ve  set  your  sights  too  high—if  she’s  not  high
enough  on  the  social  register,  you  turn  up  your  nose.  A  girl  from  a  really
rich family is used to getting her way, not nearly so easy to bring around as
Weilong. You’d have to put up with all sorts of restrictions. The reason you
want money is to have a good time, and if you’re not having a good time,
what’s the point of the money? Weilong’s earnings will decline sharply, of
course, seven or eight years from now. When she can’t bring in enough to
pay the bills, get a divorce. Obtaining a divorce, in the British legal system,
is quite difficult; the only legal grounds are adultery. How hard will it be to
find evidence of that?”

After  this  talk,  George  was  perfectly  ready  to  go  along.  The  wedding
was announced right away. It was held at the Hong Kong Hotel, and was a
great success.

Hong Kong doesn’t have many apartments, and renting a whole house
for  just  two  people  seemed  too  expensive.  Sharing  a  house  didn’t  appeal
either,  since  it  would  mean  a  loss  of  privacy.  Madame  Liang  couldn’t  do
without  Weilong  just  then,  so  she  got  George  to  move  in  with  his  wife’s
family, and gave the couple three rooms on the lower floor. It was just like
having an apartment of their own.

From then on, it was as if Weilong had been sold to Madame Liang and
George  Qiao.  She  was  busy  all  day  long,  getting  money  for  George  Qiao
and  people  for  Madame  Liang.  And  sometimes  she  was  happy—for
instance,  when  she  and  George  went  to  Wanchai  on  Chinese  New  Year’s
Eve, just the two of them, mingling with the crowds.

Wanchai  isn’t  in  the  center  of  Hong  Kong;  in  fact,  it’s  quite  far  away
from the city, and filled with low-class amusements. However once a year
there’s  a  New  Year’s  market,  not  unlike  the  temple  festivals  in  northern
China.  When  the  market  opens,  people  flood  in,  and  lots  of  fashionable
people like to join in the throng and buy a few trinkets. Weilong spotted a

jadeite  potted  plum  in  a  stall  that  sold  curios  and  antiques,  and  George
squeezed forward to haggle with the vendor. The vendor squatted on top of
a many-tiered stack of display shelves. He wore a tight-fitting padded jacket
made  of  coarse  blue  cotton  sackcloth,  trousers  of  the  same  cloth,  and  a
woolen  hat  pushed  back  from  his  brow.  A  gas  lamp  was  hanging  in  the
center  of  the  street,  and  its  greenish  glare  fell  directly  on  his  sharp
Cantonese  features,  bringing  out  the  prominences,  deepening  the  ravines,
darkening  the  hollows.  He  rested  one  hand  on  his  knee  and  gestured  with
the other, but after a lot of haggling, he still shook his head.
Weilong pulled George away. “Come on, let’s go!”
Pushed  back  and  forth  by  the  crowd,  she  had  a  strange  sensation.  The
sky overhead  was  a dark purple-blue,  and the  sea at  the  end of the  winter
sky was purple-blue too, but here in the bay was a place like this, a place
teeming  with  people  and  lanterns  and  dazzling  goods—blue  ceramic
double-handled flowerpots, rolls and rolls of scallion-green velvet brushed
with gold, cellophane bags of Balinese Shrimp Crisps, ambercolored durian
cakes  from  the  tropics,  Buddha-bead  bracelets  with  their  big  red  tassels,
light  yellow  sachets,  little  crosses  made  of  dark  silver,  coolie  hats—and
stretching  out  beyond  these  lights  and  people  and  market  goods,  the  clear
desolation of sea and sky; endless emptiness, endless terror. Her future was
like that—it didn’t bear thinking about; if she did think, it was only endless
terror.  She  had  no  lasting  arrangement  for  her  life.  Her  fearful,  cringing
heart  could  find  a  makeshift  sort  of  rest  only  in  little  odds  and  ends,  like
these spread out before her.

Dirty  as  the  place  was,  there  were  still  moments  of  wild  pleasure.
Firecrackers flew headlong and at random up and down the street, and she
and George hunched over as they walked, dodging the little green-and-red
comets.

“Oh!” George suddenly cried out. “You’re on fire!”
“There  you  go,  tricking  me  again!”  said  Weilong,  twisting  her  head

around to check the back of her dress.

“When  have  I  ever  tricked  you!  Quick,  kneel  down.  Let  me  stamp  it

out.”

Weilong  kneeled  on  the  ground;  George  stamped  on  her  dress,  dirty
shoes and all, and put out the fire that was burning at the hem. Her cotton-
lined  dress,  made  of  violet  satin  that  was  embroidered  with  small  silver

“longevity” characters, had a hole burned through. They laughed, and went
on walking.

After a moment, George said, “It’s true, Weilong, I love to tell a lie, but

I’ve never lied to you. Even I don’t quite understand it.”

“Still thinking of that?”
George insisted: “I’ve never lied to you, have I?”
Weilong sighed. “Never. You know very well that a tiny little lie could

make me very happy, but you refuse. You don’t want to be bothered.”

“You don’t need me to lie to you. You lead yourself on, all by yourself.
Someday  you’ll  have  to  admit  that  I’m  despicable.  When  that  happens,
you’ll regret having sacrificed so much for me. Who knows—maybe you’ll
be so enraged you’ll murder me! It scares me, I tell you!”

“I love you, so I’m not going to blame you for anything.”
“That’s all very well, but our current division of rights and duties really

is unfair.”

Eyebrows raised, Weilong smiled slightly. “Fair? There’s no such thing
as ‘fair’ in relationships between people. But I have to ask, what’s suddenly
pricking your conscience today?”

“Because I can see how much you’re enjoying the New Year, just like a

child.”

“I look happy, and you have to say something awful so I won’t be—is

that it?”

The  two  of  them  walked  along  examining  the  items  on  display.  Every
possible  sort  of  thing  was  there,  but  pride  of  place  went  to  the  human
goods. A group of girls was standing in the severe light of a gas lamp; the
intense chiaroscuro turned their noses light blue and the sides of their faces
green, while the rouge that was slathered over their cheeks looked purple.
One girl was very young, thirteen or fourteen at most. Her skinny little body
was  dressed  up  Western-style,  with  a  short,  dark-violet  serge  coat  over  a
bright  red  skirt  of  pleated  silk.  The  cold  made  her  shiver  so  hard  that  her
smile rippled unevenly across her face like a reflection in water; her lower
lip  was  bitten  through  by  her  chattering  teeth.  When  a  drunken  English
sailor  came  up  to  her  from  behind  and  laid  a  hand  on  her  shoulder,  she
twisted  her  head  around  and  shot  him  a  flirtatious  glance—and  her  eyes
were truly luscious, with drooping corners that swept out to the hairline. It
was  a  pity  though  that  she  had  a  bright  pink  chilblain  on  her  ear.  She
clasped  the  sailor’s  arm  with  her  two  hands  and  leaned  her  head  against

him; pressed tight, they walked a few steps, and then another sailor arrived
—two  big,  tall  men,  squeezing  in  on  her  from  both  sides.  Her  head  only
reached their elbows.

Along came a gang of sailors, drunk and throwing firecrackers in every
direction.  When  they  saw  Weilong,  they  started  to  aim  at  her,  and  the
firecrackers raced like meteors toward the moon. Weilong was so scared she
turned and ran. George found their car, and pushed her toward it; they got
in, started the engine, and left Wanchai.

“Those  drunken  mudfish,”  George  said  with  a  smile.  “What  do  they

take you for?”

“But how am I any different from those girls?”
Steering with one hand, George reached out with the other to cover her

mouth. “Talk such nonsense again and—”

“Yes,  yes!  I  was  wrong,  I  admit  it,”  Weilong  apologized.  “How  could
there not be any difference between us? They don’t have a choice—I do it
willingly!”

The car passed through Wanchai. The sharp pop-pop of the firecrackers
faded  behind  them,  and  the  red  traffic  lights  chased  each  other  across  the
windshield,  then  slipped  into  darkness.  The  car  drove  through  the  heavy
blackness of the city streets. George hadn’t looked—it was too dark to see
—but  he  knew  she  must  be  crying.  With  his  free  hand  he  pulled  out  a
cigarette case and lighter. Cigarette dangling from his lips, he struck a light.
On  that  bitter  winter’s  night,  the  flame  flashed  before  his  mouth  like  an
orange  blossom.  The  blossom  bloomed,  then  died.  The  cold  and  the  dark
returned.

Here  is  the  end of this Hong Kong story. Weilong’s brazier  of incense

will soon go out too.

JASMINE TEA

THIS  POT  of  jasmine  tea  that  I’ve  brewed  for  you  may  be  somewhat
bitter;  this  Hong  Kong  tale  that  I’m  about  to  tell  you  may  be,  I’m  afraid,
just as bitter. Hong Kong is a splendid city, but a sad one too.

First,  pour  yourself  a  cup  of  tea,  but  be  careful—it’s  hot!  Blow  on  it
gently. In the tea’s curling steam you can see… a Hong Kong public bus on
a  paved  road,  slowly  driving  down  a  hill.  A  passenger  stands  behind  the
driver, a big  bunch of azaleas in  his  arms. The passenger  leans  against  an
open  window,  the  azaleas  stream  out  in  a  twiggy  thicket,  and  the
windowpane behind becomes a flat sheet of red.

Sitting by that window was Nie Chuanqing, a young man of something
like twenty. Twenty, perhaps, though he looked much older around the eyes
and mouth. Then again, his skinny neck and thin shoulders could have been
those  of  an  adolescent.  Wearing  a  blue  gown  of  lined  silk,  he  leaned
sideways in the seat, with his head propped against the window and a stack
of books in his lap. There, in the rosy sateen gleam of the flowers, his oval-
shaped  Mongolian  face,  with  its  faint  eyebrows  and  with  the  downturned
corners  of  the  eyes,  had  a  feminine  kind  of  beauty.  But  the  nose  was  too
sharp; it clashed with the delicate softness of his face. A peach-colored bus
ticket was stuck between his teeth, and he seemed to have dozed off.

The bus came to a sudden stop. Forcing his eyes open, Chuanqing saw
one  of  his  classmates  boarding:  it  was  Professor  Yan’s  daughter,  Yan
Danzhu. He frowned. He hated bumping into people he knew on the bus, he
couldn’t  hear  what  they  said  over  the  engine  roar.  He  was  a  bit  deaf,  his
hearing damaged by the blows to the ear he’d taken from his father.

Yan  Danzhu’s  hair  looked  freshly  shampooed,  with  the  center  part
drawn straight while the hair was still wet and the ends touched up with a
curling iron. Her hair fell vertically to her shoulders, like an Indian girl’s in
an  American  cartoon.  She  had  a  smooth,  round  face,  tanned  to  a  coppery
color, with  jet-black  brows  and shining eyes;  she wasn’t very tall,  but  she
had  a  nicely  curvy  figure.  Once  on  the  bus,  she  smiled  and  nodded  at
Chuanqing, then came over to sit beside him.

“Going home?” she asked.
Chuanqing leaned over so he could hear. “Yeah.”
The  conductor  came  to  collect  the  fare.  Chuanqing  reached  for  his

wallet, but Danzhu said, “Oh—I’ve got a monthly pass.”

“What classes will you be taking this semester?” she continued.
“Same as before, no big change.”
“Are you still going to be in my father’s History of Chinese Literature?”
Chuanqing nodded.
“Did you know I’m taking it too?” she laughed.

“You’re going to be your father’s student?” Chuanqing was surprised.
“That’s right!” Danzhu giggled. “At first he wouldn’t let me! He’s never
had a daughter sitting with the other students while he lectures, and he was
afraid he’d be embarrassed. And then, since we’re used to joking around at
home,  he  thought  maybe  I’d  be  too  casual  in  class,  pester  him  with
questions  the  way  I  usually  do,  maybe  even  argue  back—and  then  how
could he keep a stern face? So I gave my solemn promise never to open my
mouth in his class, no matter how little I understood, and finally he agreed.”

“Professor Yan… he’s a nice man!” Chuanqing lightly sighed.
“What? So he’s not a good teacher?” Danzhu laughed. “You don’t like

his class?”

“Take a look at my grades and you’ll see that he doesn’t like me.”
“What  do  you  mean?  He’s  harder  on  you  because  you’re  from
Shanghai,  and  your  Chinese  is  better  than  the  Hong  Kong  students’
Chinese. He often praises you. He says you’re a bit lazy, that’s all.”

Chuanqing  made  no  reply,  turning  away  instead,  and  pressing  his  face
against the glass. He couldn’t keep leaning toward her, listening so intently
when she spoke. Anyone who saw them would draw the wrong conclusion.
Already  lots  of  people  were  spreading  rumors,  all  because  Danzhu  kept
coming up to him. At school, people gave him the cold shoulder, and since
he knew he wasn’t liked, he stayed away from the others. But he couldn’t
escape Danzhu.

Danzhu—he didn’t know what she had in mind, since she certainly had
plenty  of  friends.  Even  though  she’d  been  at  South  China  University  for
only half a year, she was one of the most popular girls on campus. Why on
earth did she want to befriend him? He stole a sideways glance at her. Her
full breasts and tiny waist were sculpted by a white wool-knit vest, as if she
were  a  plaster  statue.  He  turned  away  again,  rubbing  his  forehead  on  the
glass.  He  didn’t  like  looking  at  girls,  especially  pretty  girls  with  good
figures: they made him feel especially dissatisfied with himself.

Danzhu was talking again. He frowned, forcing a smile. “Sorry, I didn’t

hear that.”

Raising her voice, she repeated her words, but again, halfway through,
he could not follow her. Fortunately, since he was so often silent, she wasn’t
at all disturbed by his failure to answer. But then he happened to catch one
part  of  what  she’d  said,  the  very  last  part.  She  had  lowered  her  head  and

was tugging at her wool-knit vest; she pulled it down, but it crept back up
again.

“What  I  told  you  the  other  day—about  the  letter  Dequan  sent  me—

please forget about it,” she said. “Just pretend I never said anything.”

“Why?” asked Chuanqing.
“Why?…  It’s  quite  obvious.  I  shouldn’t  have  told  anyone.  I’m  such  a

child—I can’t keep anything back!”

Chuanqing leaned forward, rested his elbows on his knees, and smiled.
Danzhu  leaned  forward  at  his  side.  “Chuanqing,”  she  said  quite  seriously,
“you aren’t taking this the wrong way, are you? When I told you about that,
I wasn’t showing off. I can’t just… not talk to people. The words build up
inside  and  I  have  to  let  them  out.  And  then,  when  I  refused  him,  I  lost
Dequan as a friend. I want to be friends with him, I want to be friends with
lots of people.  As  for  anything more  than  that, we’re too  young,  we  can’t
even talk about such things yet. But they… they all get so serious.”

A  few  moments  passed.  “Chuanqing,  are  you  upset?”  He  shook  his
head.  “I  don’t  know  why,  but  there  are  some  things  I  can’t  tell  anyone
except you.”

“I don’t know why either.”
“I think it’s because… well, to me, you’re like a girl.”
A  bitter  smile  swept  across  his  face.  “Really?  You  have  a  lot  of

girlfriends, so why choose me?”

“Because you’re the only one who can keep a secret.”
But Chuanqing replied coldly, “Of course—I don’t have any friends, so

there’s no one I could tell.”

Quickly she replied, “You’re taking it all wrong again!” They both fell
silent. Then Danzhu sighed. “I didn’t say it the right way, but… Chuanqing,
why  don’t  you  try  to  make  some  friends?  Then  you’d  have  someone  to
study with or have fun with. Why don’t you invite us to your house to play
tennis? I know you have a tennis court.”

Chuanqing laughed. “There isn’t much chance of playing tennis on our
court. It’s usually full of laundry hung out to dry, and when the weather’s
warm, they cook opium there.”

Danzhu stopped, unable to say anything more.
Chuanqing turned back and looked out the window. The bus took a fast,
hard turn, and the azaleas in the standing passenger’s arms were sent flying

about.  When  Chuanqing  looked  at  Danzhu  again,  he  gasped  a  little  in
surprise. “You’re crying!”

“How  could  I  be crying? I  never  cry!”  But then,  with  a sad, hard sob,
she confronted him: “You… you always make me feel as though I’ve done
something  wrong…  as  if  I  have  no  right  to  be  happy!  But  my  happiness
doesn’t do you any harm!”

Taking her books from her, Chuanqing wiped the cover of the top one
dry.  “Is  this  the  new  edition  of  Professor  Yan’s  lecture  notes?  I  haven’t
bought it yet. You might think it funny, but I’ve been in his class for half a
year now, and I still don’t know his given name.”

“I like his name. I’m always telling him his name looks sharp—sharper

than he does, by a long shot!”

Chuanqing had found the name on the book cover. He read it out loud:
“Yan Ziye.” Putting the book aside, he tilted his head in thought. Then he
picked  the  book  back  up  and  read  the  name  again:  “Yan  Ziye.”  He  felt
somehow  doubtful  the  second  time,  as  if  he  couldn’t  quite  make  out  the
characters.

“Not a good name?” Danzhu asked.
“Yes,  of  course  it’s  good!”  Chuanqing  laughed.  “We  all  know  that
you’ve got a good father! Good in every way, except that now you’re way
too spoiled!”

Danzhu hissed back at him through pursed lips. She stood up. “This is

my stop. See you later!”

When  she  had  gone,  Chuanqing 

the
windowpane.  Once  again  he  seemed  to  doze  off.  The  passenger  with  the
azaleas got off too—and with the azaleas gone from the window, there was
only the gray street behind. When the backdrop changed, his face grew dark
and yellow.

leaned  his  head  against 

The  bus  turned  another  corner.  Palm-tree  leaves  swished  against  the
window. Chuanqing jumped up, pulled the bell cord, and descended at the
next stop.

He lived in a big mansion. Within a few years of their moving here from
Shanghai, all the flowers and trees that had once filled the yard had wilted,
died,  or  been  cut  down,  and  now  the  sun  beat  down  on  a  desolate  scene.
The housemaid had turned over a rattan chair on the grass. She was sluicing
it out with a kettle of boiling water, killing bedbugs.

Inside,  the  hallway  was  heavy  with  darkness.  The  only  gleam  of  light
came  from  the  dark  red  banister  that  twisted  up,  around,  and  away.
Chuanqing  crept  up  the  stairs  cautiously;  then,  seeing  no  one  there,  he
slipped  toward  his  room  like  a  thin  cloud  of  smoke.  But  the  tired  old
floorboards squeaked loudly. Amah Liu heard, came out, and stopped him
in his tracks.

“Young Master is home! Have you gone to see Master and Mistress?”
“I’ll see them later, when we eat. What’s the rush?”
Amah  Liu  grabbed  him  by  the  sleeve.  “Here  we  go  again!  What  have
you done this time? Sneaking around, trying to avoid seeing anyone! Better
go in right away, see them now and get it over with. If you don’t, there’ll be
another angry scene!”

Chuanqing  suddenly  started  acting  like a boy of twelve  or thirteen:  he
grit his teeth, he absolutely refused to go. The harder Amah Liu tugged at
him, the harder he pulled away. Amah Liu was his mother’s personal maid,
the one who’d been sent along with her when she got married. The hatred
he felt toward Amah Liu at home was the same hatred he felt toward Yan
Danzhu at school. On a bitter-cold day, a person can be frozen numb and it
won’t  bother  him,  but  a  little  warmth  will  make  him  feel  so  cold  that  his
heart hurts and his bones ache.

In the end, his loathing for Amah Liu made him give in; just to get rid
of her, he agreed  to  see his  father and stepmother. Nie Jiechen, his  father,
was  wearing  a  grease-spotted  vest  of  light  green  satin  over  his  undershirt.
Chuanqing’s  stepmother—all  in  black,  her  hair  disheveled—was  reclining
on  the  two-person  opium  couch,  facing  her  husband.  Chuanqing  stepped
forward  and  greeted  them.  “Father,  Mother!”  They  both  gave  barely
attentive grunts. Then, at long last, the stone in his heart fell away: it looked
as though they hadn’t got wind of any offense of his today.
“Did you hand in the tuition fee?” his father asked.
Chuanqing sat down on an upholstered chair next to the smoking couch.

“Yes.”

“What courses are you taking?”
“History  of  the  English  Language,  Nineteenth-Century  English  Prose

—”

“All  that  English  you’re  doing—why  bother?  A  donkey  can  jounce
along after the horses, jounce till his legs break, and still it won’t amount to
anything!”

His stepmother smiled. “He wants to put on the airs of a Young Master.
No  big  deal—just  get  him  a  tutor,  and  the  tutor  can  do  his  homework  for
him.”

“I don’t keep extra money lying around just so he can have a tutor,” said

his father. “What else are you taking?”
“History of Chinese Literature.”
“That’s too easy for you! Tang Dynasty poems, Song Dynasty lyrics—

you’ve done all that before.”

“Can’t  do  anything  new,  but  he  sure  can  laze  around!”  said  his

stepmother.

Chuanqing’s  head  dropped  forward  almost  to  the  ground.  He  hunched
his back, picked up the little metal end of his shoelace and scraped it lightly
on  his  shoe.  His  father  shifted  around  on  the  smoking  couch,  grabbed  a
rolled-up newspaper, and hit Chuanqing hard on the neck. “Idle hands, with
nothing to do, will only find something to break!” he barked. “Go on! Go
on! Get over there! Cook some opium pellets!”

Chuanqing sat on a little stool in the corner and cooked the opium on a
low  table.  His  stepmother  was  in  excellent  spirits  today.  She  picked  up  a
small gold-decorated teapot, drank a mouthful of tea, then pinched her lips
together  and  smiled.  “Chuanqing,”  she  said,  “do  you  have  a  girlfriend  at
school?”

“Him?” said his father. “He doesn’t have any male friends, how could

he get a girlfriend?”

“Chuanqing,” his stepmother smiled, “I want to know. People are saying
there’s  a  girl  from  the  Yan  family—they’re  from  Shanghai  too—and  that
she’s been chasing after you. Is there anything to it?”

Chuanqing’s  face  reddened.  “Yan  Danzhu—she  has  a  lot  of  friends,

doesn’t she? Why would she be interested in me?”

“Who  says  she’s  interested  in  you?”  said  his  father.  “It’s  your  money
she’s  interested  in!  You?  What’s  there  to  see  in  you?  Three  parts  human,
seven parts ghost—”

But Chuanqing was thinking, “My money? My money?”
One day, the money would be his, and then he could sign his name on
checks  whenever  he  liked.  He’d  been  waiting  for  this  for  years,  since  his
early  teens.  Once,  filled  with  urgency,  he’d  even  practiced  on  a  discarded
check,  signing  his  name  at  a  slant:  “Nie  Chuanqing,  Nie  Chuanqing.”
Bravely,  handsomely,  on  the  left  and  on  the  right:  “Nie  Chuanqing,  Nie

Chuanqing.”  But  his  father  had  slapped  him  across  the  jaw,  ripped  the
check  away,  and  shoved  the  crumpled  wad  into  his  face.  Why?  Because
Chuanqing had touched a raw nerve, one of his father’s buried fears. When
the  money  came  into  Chuanqing’s  hands,  wouldn’t  he  just  go  crazy  and
waste it, throw it all away? Such a timid, gloomy, idiotic boy. His father had
certainly never intended him to turn out like this. Now, whenever he looked
at his son, he felt helpless and full of rage. Underneath, there was an edge
of  fear.  Nie  Jiechen  had  once  said,  “Hit  him,  and  he  doesn’t  cry,  he  just
stares at you with those big wide eyes. I can’t stand to see him staring like
that. It makes me furious!”

Chuanqing  was  cooking  the  opium.  He  couldn’t  keep  his  eyes—those
big wide fearful staring eyes—off his father. Sooner or later… yes, his day
would  come.  But  by  then,  he’d  have  been  trampled  on  for  so  long  that
nothing human would be left. What a bizarre victory it would be!

The opium paste dripped down the cooking wand and dropped into the
lamp.  Chuanqing  started,  afraid  his  parents  would  notice.  Fortunately,  a
maid came in to announce the arrival of Second Aunt Xu. This distraction
gave him the cover he needed.

“Go  on,  get  out  of  here!”  his  father  said  to  him.  “A  creepy  sneak  like
you, not an ounce of manliness in you, a laughingstock to everyone! Maybe
you’re not embarrassed, but I am!”

“The boy isn’t suffering from a disease,” his stepmother said, “and yet
he’s thin as a rail. If people see they’ll think we mistreat him! And yet I’ve
never known him to hold back when it comes to food and drink!”

His  head  hanging,  Chuanqing  left  the  room,  only  to  glimpse  the
approaching female visitor. He ducked into a dark corner till the coast was
clear,  then  went  on  to  his  bedroom  and  started  flipping  the  pages  of  his
schoolbooks. Thinking back to all the times Yan Danzhu had urged him to
work  harder,  he  felt  a  burst  of  energy;  bracing  himself,  he  decided  to  do
some homework.

His bedroom was clouded with smoke; opium fumes had drifted in from
the other room. He lived in this air, had grown up in this air, but today for
some  reason  the  smell  made  him  dizzy,  nauseous.  He’d  go  to  the  living
room,  where  it  was  a  bit  cleaner.  He  ran  down  the  stairs  with  his  books
under his arm, his mind surging with irritation. In the living room he found
only  dust  motes  and  pale  sunbeams.  A  translucent  red  flower  vase  held  a
feather duster. He took a seat at the square rosewood table that stood in the

middle of the room, then leaned forward and lay half prone on the marble
tabletop. The tabletop was cool, like the window on the bus.

Azaleas outside the window; inside, Yan Danzhu… and Danzhu’s father
was Yan Ziye. He’d seen that name when he was little, before he’d really
learned  to  read.  On  the  blank  inside  cover  of  a  ragged  old  Early  Tide
magazine he’d deciphered, one by one, these words:

To Miss Biluo,
A trifle for your amusement.
Best regards, Yan Ziye

His mother’s name was Feng Biluo.
He reached for a textbook, pulled it over, and read a few pages, his head
pillowed  on  his  sleeve.  It  was  as  if  he’d  gone  back  to  the  age  when  he
couldn’t read very well; each word was a struggle, and he didn’t know what
any of it meant.

Suddenly  he  saw  Amah  Liu  entering  the  room.  “Move  aside,  Young
Master.” She tugged at the tablecloth draped across her shoulder, spread it
out, and tied it to the legs of the table.

“What? Are they going to play mah-jongg?” Chuanqing asked.
“They  need  a  fourth,  so  they  telephoned  Old  Uncle  and  asked  him  to

come.”

Just  then,  the  housemaid  came  in  with  a  hundred-watt  lightbulb.

Chuanqing picked up his books to head back upstairs.

In  the  corner  of  his  bedroom  there  was  a  big  wicker  trunk  full  of  old,
battered  books—and,  he  remembered,  a  stack  of  Early  Tide magazines.  A
leather strap was tied lengthwise across the top of the trunk, but undoing it
would have required more energy than he had. He pried the lid up with his
head, thrust his hands inside, and blindly fumbled around. Suddenly it came
back to him: all the Early Tide magazines, every single one, had gotten lost
when they moved.

He left his hands where they were, pinched by the lid of the trunk. His
head drooped, as if he’d broken his neck. His gown of lined blue silk had a
stiff standing collar, and the strong, hot sun shone down inside it, warming
the back of his neck. He had a strange feeling, though, that the sky would
soon  be  dark…  that  already  it  was  dark.  As  he  waited  all  alone  by  the
window,  his  heart  darkened  along  with  the  sky.  An  unspeakable,  dusky

anguish… Just as in a dream, that person waiting by the window was at first
himself,  and  then  in  an  instant  he  could  see,  very  clearly,  that  it  was  his
mother.  Her  long  bangs  swept  down  in  front  of  her  bowed  head,  and  the
pointed  lower  half  of  her  face  was  a  vague  white  shadow.  Her  eyes  and
eyebrows, so clouded and dim, were like black shadows in moonlight. But
he knew for a certainty that it was his dead mother, Feng Biluo.

He hadn’t had a mother since he was four years old, but he recognized
her from her photograph. There was only one photo that showed her before
her marriage, and in it she wore an old-style satin jacket embroidered with
the faint shapes of tiny bats. The figure in the window was growing clearer
now, and he could see the bats on the autumn-colored silk of her jacket. She
was  waiting  for  someone,  waiting  for  news.  She  knew  that  the  news
wouldn’t  come.  In  her  heart  the  sky  was  slowly  darkening—Chuanqing
flinched  in  pain.  He  couldn’t  tell  whether  it  really  was  his  mother,  or
himself.

But  the  nameless  anguish  pressing  down  on  him?  He  knew  now  that
that was love, a hopeless love some twenty years in the past. A knife will
rust after twenty years, but it’s still a knife. The knife in his mother’s heart
now twisted in his.

With an enormous effort, Chuanqing lifted his head. The entire illusion
rapidly  melted  away.  He  had  felt,  for  a  moment,  like  an  old-time  portrait
photographer, his head thrust into a tunnel of black cloth: there in the lens
he’d caught a glimpse of his mother. He pulled his hands out from under the
lid  of  the  trunk;  pressing  them  to  his  lips,  he  sucked  fearfully  at  the  red
marks.

Chuanqing knew very little about his mother, but he did know that she
had never loved his father. And so his father hated her. After she died, he
turned  his  fury  against  her  child;  otherwise,  even  with  the  stepmother
egging  him  on,  Chuanqing’s  father  wouldn’t  have  become  so  vicious
toward him.

His mother had never loved his father—had she loved someone else? A
faint  rumor  to  that  effect  had  circulated  among  their  relatives.  His
stepmother had been kin even before her marriage to his father, so she knew
the rumors already. Of course she was unwilling to let the matter drop, and
insisted  on  talking  about  Chuanqing’s  mother  even  in  Chuanqing’s
presence. Anything that passed through her lips was sure to be grating and
painful.  Amah  Liu,  as  Biluo’s  maid,  couldn’t  stand  hearing  her  deceased

mistress slandered, and made sullen remarks in her mistress’s defense to the
other  servants.  That  was  how  Chuanqing  had  picked  up  a  few  facts  he
thought he could depend on.

Viewed  from  a  modern  perspective,  those  few  facts  were  pitifully
simple. Feng Biluo was married at eighteen years of age. There had been a
time,  before  her  engagement,  when  she’d  had  ardent  hopes  of  going  to
school and getting an education. In a conservative family like hers, this was
most  unlikely.  But  she  and  some  female  cousins  kept  talking  about  it,
secretly,  furtively.  The  cousins  were  quite  a  bit  younger  than  Biluo,  and
their  parents weren’t so strict;  at  last  they  got  their  wish. They  decided  to
take  the  entrance  exam  for  a  girls’  elementary  school  that  offered  both
Chinese and Western subjects; Yan Ziye, a distant relative, was invited to be
their tutor. Ziye was their junior, in terms of family generations, but he was
actually  older  in  years,  and  he  had  two  years  of  university  study  behind
him. Biluo hankered  after her cousins’ good  fortune, she couldn’t give  up
her  dream  of  getting  an  education,  so  she  followed  every  detail  of  their
exam  preparations.  That  was  how,  on  several  occasions,  she  happened  to
meet Yan Ziye at her cousins’ house. The two of them were always in the
company of others.

The Yan family engaged the  services  of a matchmaker.  Before  Biluo’s
mother could respond to the proposal, Biluo’s grandfather’s concubine, who
was sitting in the corner smoking a water pipe, broke out in a loud cackle.
“Well,” the old woman chipped in, “it’s a bit early to be talking about this!”
The matchmaker smiled back. “The young lady isn’t little anymore…”
The  old  concubine  laughed.  “Her  age  is  not  the  problem!  The  Yan
family from Changshu is at best a family of traders. If their Young Master
makes his way as a scholar, and they keep it up for a couple of generations,
and  then  come  to  us  with  a  marriage  proposal—well,  then  we’ll  have
something to discuss. But now? It’s much too early!”

The  matchmaker  conveyed  the  rebuff  to  the  Yan  family.  One  way  or
another,  Yan  Ziye  soon  found  out  the  exact  nature  of  the  Feng  family’s
reply, and he was deeply angered. He wanted to let the whole matter drop.

But  it  seems  that  he  and  Biluo  met  yet  one  more  time  after  this.  It
couldn’t have been an accident, since the two of them would have gone out
of their way not to encounter each other after the proposal. This last, brief
meeting  must  have  been  Biluo’s  idea.  Biluo  hinted  to  Ziye  that  he  should
bring  in  another  matchmaker  to  try  to  persuade  her  parents,  since  their

refusal had not been absolute. But Ziye, who was young and hot tempered,
didn’t want to be accused of “social climbing,” or to hear such terrible slurs
on his own family’s reputation. He told her that soon he’d be going abroad
to study. If she wanted, she could take a drastic step: she could go with him.
Biluo wouldn’t do it.

When  he  thought  back  to  this  part,  Chuanqing’s  heart  rose  up  in
resentment  against  his  mother;  still,  he  had  to  admit  that  she  didn’t  have
much  choice.  It  was,  after  all,  twenty  years  ago!  She  had  to  think  of  her
family’s reputation, and she had to think of Ziye’s future.

Ziye went abroad by himself. By the time he returned, the Feng family
had  already  married  Biluo  to  Nie  Jiechen,  and  Ziye  had  been  through
several  romances.  Chuanqing  hadn’t  heard  anything  about  how  Ziye  had
come to marry Danzhu’s mother, a southern girl, before moving his family,
sometime in the past few years, to Hong Kong.

As  for  Biluo’s  life  after  her  marriage—Chuanqing  couldn’t  bear  to
imagine it. She wasn’t a bird in a cage. A bird in a cage, when the cage is
opened,  can  still  fly  away.  She  was  a  bird  embroidered  onto  a  screen—a
white  bird  in  clouds  of  gold  stitched  onto  a  screen  of  melancholy  purple
satin.  The  years  passed;  the  bird’s  feathers  darkened,  mildewed,  and  were
eaten by moths, but the bird stayed on the screen even in death.

She was dead, for her it was over, but what about Chuanqing? Why did
Chuanqing have to endure such punishment? When Biluo was married into
the  Nie  family,  her  sacrifice  had  at  least  been  a  conscious  one.  But
Chuanqing,  born  into  that  family,  had  never  had  a  choice.  Another  bird
added  to  the  screen—no  matter  how  much  he’s  beaten,  he  can’t  fly  away.
Twenty years with his father had crippled his spirit. Even if he did receive
his freedom, escape was impossible for him.

He  couldn’t  escape,  couldn’t  escape!  And  since  he’d  never  had  the
slightest hope of the whole situation being any different, he’d simply given
in.  But  now,  after  taking  all  those  bits  that  he  garnered  or  guessed,  and
constructing from them, for the first time, a coherent story, he finally saw
how it was: twentysome years ago, before his own birth, there had been a
hope of deliverance for him. His mother had had a possibility of marrying
Yan Ziye, so he himself almost could have been the son of Yan Ziye. Then
he’d be Yan Danzhu’s elder brother— maybe Yan Danzhu herself! If it had
been him, then there’d be no her.

The  next  day  at  school,  in  his  History  of  Chinese  Literature  class,
Chuanqing’s  mind  was  a  mess.  He  saw,  as  from  a  great  distance,  Yan
Danzhu  slip  quietly  into  the  classroom,  a  bulky  patent-leather  notebook
clutched to her chest. She sat in the front row, over to the left and out of the
professor’s line of sight: no doubt trying not to disturb her father. Then she
looked  around  and  smiled  a  bit  at  Chuanqing.  There  was  an  empty  seat
beside her; the boy next to Chuanqing nudged him and urged him to take it.
Chuanqing shook his head. The boy laughed. “What a fool you are! What
have you got to lose? If you don’t go, I will!”

But  as  he  was  getting  up,  several  other  students  pushed  ahead  of  him.
The race was to the swift, and the one who got there first promptly occupied
the seat.

It was late-spring weather, and already the heat was ferocious. On top of
her  cheongsam,  Danzhu  wore  a  long-sleeved  jacket  of  thin  white  silk.
Leaning  over  to  laugh  and  chat  with  someone  next  to  her,  she  rested  her
cheek in one hand. Her lively, copper-colored face and arms, complemented
by that gauzy silk, looked like amber liquor shimmering in a glass. Simple
appreciation  of  beauty  was,  however,  just  a  small  part  of  Chuanqing’s
response to her. He thought: she doesn’t look like Yan Ziye at all, she must
take  after  her  mother,  that  southern  girl  that  Yan  Ziye  married.  Yan  Ziye
was pale and fairly slim. Most men don’t get their looks till they’re at least
thirty—Yan Ziye proved the point. He had to be—what—at least fortyfive?
But he looked much younger.

Yan Ziye came in and walked to the podium. Chuanqing suddenly felt
that  he’d  never  really  seen  him  before.  He  saw,  for  the  first  time,  the
debonair  elegance  of  the  long  Chinese  gown.  Chuanqing  himself  wore  a
gown and jacket, for reasons of economy, though like most young men he
would have preferred a Western suit. But Yan Ziye s loose gray silk gown,
with its accumulation of soft, heavy folds, showed off the fine long lines of
his  body.  Chuanqing  was  surprised  by  a  sudden  fantasy:  If  he  were  Yan
Ziye’s  child,  would  he  look  like  Yan  Ziye?  The  resemblance  would
certainly have been close: unlike Danzhu, he was a man.

Yan  Ziye  opened  the  roll  book.  “Li  Mingguang,  Dong  Dequan,  Wang
Lifen, Wang Zongwei, Wang Xiaoyi, Nie Chuanqing…” When Chuanqing
answered,  he  thought  his  voice  sounded  strange,  and  he  quickly  blushed.
But Yan Ziye kept going: “Qin Defen, Zhang Shixian…” One hand resting

on the desktop, the other calmly bearing the roll book—a man who’d gone
through hardship, but still had known some small measure of happiness.

A man whose blood could have flowed in my veins, Chuanqing thought
to  himself.  “Suppose…  suppose…”  But  how  sweet  a  fruit  the  “suppose”
must be, that people will sup and sup on it! A juicy fruit, like a lychee but
without the  pit, sparkling  and light  green; a fruit  that hides  the  tart  within
the sweet. Suppose… suppose his mother, at the moment of saying her final
farewell to Yan Ziye, had shown a bit of will, a bit of selfishness? If only,
swept  away  by  emotion,  she  had  changed  everything  by  saying:  “In  the
past,  my  parents  made  all  the  decisions  for  me.  Now  you—you  make  the
decision!  Whatever  you  say,  that’s  what  I’ll  do.”  If  she  hadn’t  been  so
worried about the past, so concerned about the future… the future! Had she
really shown any concern for the future? Had she given any thought to her
future offspring? She’d done great harm, enormous harm, to her own child!
Chuanqing  himself  knew  that  his  accusations  against  his  mother  were
unfair. For a girl of just seventeen or eighteen, as she was then, she’d held
herself to an admirably high moral standard. But the most that anyone can
do, when faced with a tough problem, is try to ease the heart’s burden, try to
take the pressure off. Could he really blame his mother?

Professor Yan turned around to write on the blackboard. The room filled
with  rustling  sounds  as  the  students  copied  after  him,  but  Chuanqing
couldn’t keep his mind on his work.

He’d eaten one “suppose,” and now he peeled another. If, for instance,
his  mother  and  Yan  Ziye  had  gotten  married,  their  life  together  would
probably not have been perfectly blissful. Chuanqing knew from Amah Liu
that Biluo was  high-strung  and emotional; Danzhu  had once told him that
Yan Ziye was suspicious and often quite rigid. Lovers love to fight; it’s the
absence  of ties  that makes  mutual  forbearance possible.  And, at  that time,
society  would  have  frowned  on  Biluo’s  breaking  with  her  family,  and  the
marriage  would  certainly  have  hurt  Ziye’s  career.  People’s  views  had
changed, of course, over the past ten years—but by then Ziye would have
missed  his  chance,  and  he’d  have  lost  his  enthusiasm.  When  a  man  isn’t
happy in his career, all sorts of squabbles and petty misunderstandings will
find  their  way  into  his  home  life.  Wouldn’t  that  have  been  bad  for  their
children?

No,  it  would  have  been  good  for  them!  Little  worries  and  small
obstacles build character. If he were Ziye and Biluo’s child, his mind would

be  so  much  deeper,  so  much  more  reflective,  than  Danzhu’s.  And  a  child
with  a  loving  family  is  always  full  of  confidence  and  fellow-feeling—
active, vigorous, and brave, whatever the vagaries of his life. So he would
have all of Danzhu’s strengths, and all the ones she lacked, too.

Danzhu sat in the front row: again his gaze fell on her. She was listening
intently  to  Professor  Yan’s  lecture,  head  tilted  to  one  side,  lips  parted
slightly as she tapped with a pencil on her small, white teeth. The line of her
face, in profile, was smooth and lovely, especially that little snub nose, just
like a child’s. A trace of perspiration glistened on her nose; she looked like
nothing so much as a shiny bronze fountain statue.

Danzhu was in the science division at the university, but still found time
to  study  other  things:  literary  history,  for  instance.  Her  interests  were  so
wide-ranging  that  they  touched  on  everything  and  everyone.  Chuanqing
suddenly  thought  of  just  the  phrase  to  describe  that  undiscriminating
approach that she took toward all their classmates: she was promiscuously
friendly. Danzhu was happy to chat with anyone, but when anyone wanted
more than that, she’d beg off, say they were all just students, not ready yet
for love. But what did that mean? After Danzhu graduated, what was there
for  her  to  do?  At  the  end  of  the  day,  she’d  just  go  and  get  married!  The
more Chuanqing thought about Danzhu, the more boring and superficial she
seemed. If he came from a family as wonderful as hers, he’d make the most
of it, he’d be perfect. No, he did not like Danzhu.

Chuanqing’s  resentment  against  Danzhu—and  his  strange  infatuation
with  Yan  Ziye—grew  stronger  with  each  passing  day.  Under  these
psychological  conditions,  he  was  of  course  unable  to  study.  At  the  end  of
the  semester,  his  grades  on  his  final  exams  were  awful.  Worst  of  all  was
History of Chinese Literature, which he hadn’t even come close to passing.
His  father  bawled  him  out,  then  sent  someone  to  persuade  the  school
administration to give him another chance, so he could stay with his class in
the fall semester.

When Chuanqing went back to school, his misery had not lifted; instead
it  had  grown  worse.  He  had  spent  the  whole  summer  vacation  brooding
endlessly on his pain and the reasons for it. Meanwhile the daily routine at
home had brought him into closer contact with his father. He’d discovered
how  much  he  resembled  Nie  Jiechen,  both  in  looks  and  in  manners.
Chuanqing loathed this Nie Jiechen who lived in his body. He had ways of

avoiding his father, but he couldn’t get away—not even by an inch—from
this other self that was there, stuck inside of him.

Chuanqing daydreamed all day long, leaning on the wicker trunk in the
corner  of  his  bedroom.  An  astonished  Amah  Liu  kept  coming  by  and
saying,  “Can’t  you  feel  the  blazing  sun  beating  down?  The  older  you  are,
the more muddled you get— you can’t even tell hot from cold! Sit up, get
out of the sun!” Too lazy to get up, he’d sit there on the floor, then let his
spinning  head  fall  back  on  the  wicker  trunk;  he’d  stay  that  way  a  long
while, until the wicker pattern was imprinted across his forehead.

When  school  started,  his  father  called  him  in  and  delivered  a  stern
warning. “Do badly again, and your studies are over! It’s pointless anyway
—you’re just bringing shame on the Nie family!”

Chuanqing  didn’t  want  to  drop  out,  so  he  worked  hard.  Scribbling
through the homework, he managed to get by in lots of different subjects.
But in the subject that his father thought should be easiest for him, History
of  Chinese  Literature,  he  was  lost,  he  couldn’t  make  a  showing  at  all.  He
had  to  keep  taking  the  course,  though,  since  replacing  it  with  something
else would cost him too many credits.

Final exams always came after the Christmas and New Year break. On
the  morning  of  Christmas  Eve,  classes  were  held  as  usual.  Professor  Yan
wanted to see whether the students were adequately prepared for the exam,
so he gave them an informal oral quiz. When he got to Chuanqing, he had
to call out two or three times before Chuanqing heard him.

“Tell  us  about  the  rise  of  seven-character  verse,”  Professor  Yan  said,

already a bit annoyed.

Chuanqing  stood  bent  over  like  a  beggar,  not  daring  to  look  at  the

teacher.

“The  rise  of  seven-character  verse…”  He  broke  off.  The  whole  room
was  silent.  Chuanqing  felt  that  Danzhu  was  certainly  watching  him—
watching him disgrace the whole Nie family. No, it was his mother he was
disgracing!  The  child  of  Yan  Ziye’s  wife  was  watching  the  child  of  Feng
Biluo making a fool of himself. The classroom was so quiet that he had to
say something.

He licked his lips, and the words came out slowly. “The rise of seven-
character  verse…  the  rise  of  seven-character  verse,  the…  uh…  seven-
character rise of verse!”

Behind  him  someone  laughed.  Even  Danzhu  couldn’t  help  giggling.
Most  of  the  male  students  hadn’t  laughed  at  first,  but  when  they  heard
Danzhu  they  let  themselves  go.  When  Professor  Yan  saw  that  the  whole
room  was  breaking  out  in  laughter,  he  thought  Chuanqing  must  be
deliberately  clowning  around.  He  frowned  and  banged  his  book  down  on
the lectern.

“I  see,”  he  said  coldly.  “That  was  supposed  to  be  funny.  Sorry,  but  I

don’t share your sense of humor.”

Now the students stopped laughing, one by one.
“Nie  Chuanqing,”  Professor  Yan  continued,  “I’ve  been  watching  you.
For  two  whole  semesters,  you’ve  been  in  a  daze.  Have  you  taken  in
anything I’ve said? Have you even taken a single note? If you don’t choose
to  study,  no  one’s  forcing  you.  It  would  be  better  if  you  simply  stopped
coming, stopped wasting your classmates’ time, and my time too!”

Professor Yan’s tone matched his father’s exactly, and Chuanqing’s eyes
filled with tears. He covered his face with his hands, but even so Yan Ziye
could  see  that  he  was  crying.  Ziye  had  always  hated  crying—in  his  view,
even  a  woman’s  tears  were  a  kind  of  blackmail  perpetrated  by  the  weak,
while a weeping man, tears rolling down his face, was an utterly shameless
thing. He was outraged.

“Aren’t  you  ashamed  of  yourself?”  he  shouted.  “If  all  the  youth  of

China were like you, China would be done for!”

The words fell like hammer blows, breaking Chuanqing’s heart. Down

he sat, slumping across the desktop, sobbing openly.

“If  you’re  going  to  cry,”  Ziye  said,  “go  outside  to  do  it!  I  can’t  allow

you to disturb the others. We’re still holding class here!”

Once he’d started weeping, Chuanqing couldn’t hold back his tears; the
sound of his sobs grew louder and louder. Since he was hard of hearing, he
hadn’t caught the professor’s last few words.

Ziye  stepped  forward,  pointed  at  the  door,  and  shouted,  “Get  out  of

here!”

Chuanqing stood and stumbled out.
That night, there was a Christmas Eve dance at the boys’ dormitory, up
on the mountainside. Chuanqing hadn’t finished his first full year, but, like
the other first-year students at South China University, he’d been pressured
into  buying  a  ticket.  His  father  felt  that  with  the  ticket  already  purchased
Chuanqing  must  go,  otherwise  the  school  would  be  taking  advantage  of

them.  And  so,  for  the  first  time  ever,  he  allowed  Chuanqing  to  attend  an
event  on  his  own.  Chuanqing  took  a  bus  to  the  foot  of  the  mountain  and
simply headed uphill. He had no intention of going to the dance. His plan
was to wander around all evening, frittering away the whole joyous holiday.
At  home,  he  knew,  he  wouldn’t  have  slept  anyway;  his  heart  was  racked
with turmoil.

Hong Kong lacks a true winter season, but even so Christmas Eve can
be  very  cold.  The  mountain  was  covered  with  stubby  pines  and  little  firs;
the sky was filled with clouds of azurite. A sighing wind stirred both trees
and clouds, gathering them here, dispersing them there, pushing and piling
them  up;  now  they  coalesced  in  a  black  mass,  now  they  became  green
vapor.  In  the  woods,  the  wind  howled  like  a  mad  dog,  but  when  it  came
across the distance from the sea, the sound was desperate and forlorn, like
the cry of a lonesome hound.

Hunched over, with his hands thrust into his sleeves, Chuanqing raced
up the stone steps. Ahead, beyond the last lamp, the way was pitch-black,
but he knew the path well and could just make out the pale white edges of
the cement. And he liked the dark. In the dark he could lose himself for a
little while. That scraping sound on the sandstone under his feet—what was
that? Was it Nie Chuanqing? “If all the youth of China were like him, China
would be done for”—that one? Was it really him? Even he wasn’t sure. It
was too dark, he couldn’t see.

When  his  father  cursed  him,  called  him  “pig”  or  “dog”  or  worse,  he
couldn’t care less, because he didn’t respect his father in the least. But the
words uttered so lightly by Yan Ziye had ravaged his heart and sickened his
mind; he’d never forget them, not even in death.

Chuanqing  pressed  forward,  for  how  long  he  didn’t  know,  groping
through the darkness, maybe even going in circles. Then he turned a corner,
and a lamp appeared along the path. Some young people were approaching,
talking  and  laughing  together.  Was  the  dance  already  over?  Chuanqing
ducked his head and headed back the other way. “Chuanqing! Chuanqing!”
It was Danzhu’s voice behind him, calling. He walked even faster.

Danzhu followed him a short distance, then stopped and turned around.
“See  you  later!”  she  said  to  her  companions  from  the  dance.  “I  want  to
catch up with that awkward little miss of ours and have a chat.”

“But we have to see you home!” the others said.

“Don’t worry,” said Danzhu. “I’ll ask Chuanqing to see me home, that’ll

work just as well.”

The  others  hesitated,  but  Danzhu  said,  “It’s  fine!  It’s  fine!  There’s
nothing to worry about!” Then she picked up the hem of her skirt and ran
toward Chuanqing.

When Chuanqing  saw  that she really  was  coming after him, he had to

slow down.

“Chuanqing,” Danzhu asked, a bit breathless from running, “why didn’t

you come to the dance?”
“I can’t dance.”
“What are you doing here?”
“Nothing.”
“Would you take me home?”
Chuanqing didn’t say anything, but they began to make their way up the
mountain.  Danzhu’s  house  was  near  the  top.  It  was  still  completely  dark,
except for the flashing toes of her silver-white shoes.

Danzhu  spoke  again,  and  Chuanqing  felt  that  never  before  had  she
spoken so haltingly. “You know,” she said, “I looked for you for a long time
after class today, but you’d already gone home. I know where you live, but
then you never want us to go to your house…”

Chuanqing still didn’t answer.
“About what happened today,” Danzhu continued, “you should forgive
my father. He… he is always too serious about things, and the situation at
South  China  University,  for  anyone  who’s  serious  about  teaching,  is  very
discouraging.  Most  Hong  Kong  students  have  terrible  Chinese,  but  they
think  Chinese  is  unimportant,  and  they’re  not  willing  to  really  study  the
language. How could he fail to be upset? You’re the only one with a decent
foundation  in  Chinese,  and  then  you  disappoint  him.  You…  if  you  think
about it… you can see how it is for him…”

Chuanqing said nothing.
“Do  you  see  now,”  Danzhu  said,  “why  he  got  angry  with  you?…
Chuanqing,  if  you  do  forgive  him,  then  go  and  explain  things  to  him,  tell
him  why  you’ve  been  so  preoccupied  recently.  You  know  my  father  is  a
kindhearted man, and I’m sure he’ll do anything he can to help you. Tell me
about it, and I’ll pass the message on to my father, how’s that?”

Tell Danzhu about it? Ask Yan Ziye, do you still remember Feng Biluo?
Maybe  he  would  remember,  but  he  was  a  man  who’d  seen  a  lot  over  the

years,  and  certainly  he’d  had  other  love  affairs.  But  Biluo  had  loved  only
him… and in the old days women kept the tiniest little things locked in their
hearts,  turning  them  around,  over  and  over  again,  musing  at  a  window  at
dusk,  on  a  rainy  night,  in  the  gloomy  dawn.  Yes,  back  in  the  old  days,
people were like that…

Chuanqing’s  chest  was  tight  with  pain  and  resentment;  he  couldn’t
relieve  the  pressure.  Danzhu  drew  closer  and  asked,  “Chuanqing,  is  it
something to do with your family?”

“You’re such a busybody!” he said with a weak laugh.
Danzhu  didn’t  take  offense;  instead,  she  laughed  with  him.  Everyone
liked her—she had no idea that Chuanqing was standing there full of hate.
The  wind  stirred  a  pine-tree  branch  and  it  brushed  against  her  head;  she
cried out in surprise and dodged behind Chuanqing. This gave her a chance
to take his arm. “Please tell me why,” she asked softly.

Chuanqing  swept  her  hand  away.  “Why?  Why?  Let  me  ask  you
something—why are you always hanging around me? Aren’t girls supposed
to  be  worried  about  their  reputations?  Shouldn’t  you  be  wondering  what
your father might think?”

When Danzhu heard this, she fell back a step. He walked ahead and she

followed, but at a distance.

She  sighed  deeply  and  said,  “I’m  sorry.  I  forgot  again.  Boys  and  girls
are different from each other! Here I am, always thinking that we’re all still
just children! Everyone in my family treats me like a little child.”

“Can’t  stop  talking  about  your  family,  can  you?”  Chuanqing  retorted
again.  “As  if  everyone  didn’t  know  that  you  come  from  a  model  family!
What a pity you’re not a model daughter!”

“The way you talk, it seems that you can’t stand me! As if my happiness
made  you  unhappy.  But,  Chuanqing,  I  know  you’re  not  like  that.  So  why
—”

“Why? It must be that I’m jealous of you—because you’re so pretty, so

smart, so popular!”

“You’re  still  not  being  open  with  me!  Chuanqing,  you  know  I’m  your

friend! I want you to be happy—”

“You  want  to  give  me  a  bit  of  your  happiness,  is  that  it?  You’ve  got
enough, so you toss a scrap to the dog, is that it? I don’t want it! I don’t! I’d
rather die!”

The mountain path turned a corner and the land dropped away, opening
out onto the ocean and sky. A cliff hung over the empty space, guarded by a
semicircular  metal  railing.  Chuanqing  was  walking  in  front,  but  when  he
looked back he couldn’t find Danzhu. He looked again, and saw her leaning
against  the  railing.  At  the  foot  of  the  cliff  the  pines  surged  and  billowed,
along with another kind of tree that stayed leafy even in winter; the leaves
of  that  tree  flashed  green  on  one  side,  white  on  the  other.  The  wind
swallowed  everything.  All  over  the  mountain  leaves  were  fluttering,
sprinkling  a  silver  light  everywhere.  When  the  clouds  parted,  the  pale
yellow winter moon came out; the dark white sea and sky stretched away,
behind  Danzhu,  like  a  standing  screen  plated  with  mica.  Danzhu  was
wearing a hooded cape of emerald green velvet with a white velvet lining.
Even  in  very  cold  weather  she  liked  to  wear  white,  because  the  contrast
with her dark complexion was so striking. Chuanqing had never seen her so
dressed up before. Her hood was pushed halfway back, revealing the curls
that were piled high on her head; the light was behind her, and her face was
hidden, though he could feel her burning gaze fixed upon him.

Chuanqing’s own gaze dropped. He clasped his hands behind his back
and stood stiffly for a long moment. Finally, he raised his head. He spoke
tersely: “Shall we go?”

She had already turned, and her back was to him. The wind blew wildly;
it filled her cape until it billowed out, taut and bulging, then whipped it up
over her head. Her white velvet cheongsam gleamed green in this light, and
wafting  up  in  the  air  her  cape  looked,  at  first  glance,  like  an  immense
parachute  from  which  her  lustrous  white  body  floated  down—was  she  in
fact a paratrooper who had been dispatched from the Moon Palace?

Chuanqing slowly approached her. Could Danzhu be in love with him?
Surely  that  couldn’t  be,  could  it?  And  yet  she  had  repeatedly  found  an
opportunity to be with him. Right now, for instance—here she was running
around with him on a deserted hillside in the middle of the night. Usually,
no  matter  how  much  she  laughed  and  played  around  with  her  classmates,
she kept a certain distance—she really wasn’t a flirt. Why did she treat him
so differently? He thought back over her words and behavior just now. For a
girl, wasn’t that already clear enough?

He hated her, and yet what use was his hate? It was as utterly ineffectual
as he was. If she loved him, he would have power over her, he could subject

her to all sorts of subtle psychological tortures. That was his only hope for
revenge.

“Danzhu,”  he  asked,  in  a  trembling  voice,  “do  you  like  me  a  little?…

Just a little?”

She  really  didn’t  mind  the  cold.  She  reached  out  from  under  the  cape
and  rested  her  bare  arm  on  the  railing.  He  grasped  the  railing  with  both
hands and leaned forward, meaning to press his cheek to her arm. But for
some reason, he stopped in midair, his tears streaming down. He bent over
the railing and pillowed his face on an arm—his own arm.

Did  she  love  him,  at  least  a  little?  He  didn’t  want  revenge,  he  just
wanted love—especially from someone in the Yan family. Since he and the
Yan family weren’t, in fact, blood relations, a relation by marriage would be
good enough. He simply had to have a link to the Yan family.

Danzhu pulled the flying cape back down and wound it tightly around
her. “Not just a little,” she smiled. “If I didn’t like you, why would I want to
be your friend?”

Straightening  himself  up,  Chuanqing  gulped  and  said,  “Friends!  But  I

don’t want to be your friend.”
“But you need friends.”
“Just being friends isn’t enough. I want a father and a mother.”
Danzhu stared at him, dumbfounded. He seized the metal railing as if it
were  her  arm.  “Danzhu,”  he  burst  out,  “if  you  fell  in  love  with  someone
else, to him you’d only be someone to love. But to me, you’d be much more
than that. You’d be creator, father, mother, a new world, a new everything.
You’d be past and future. You’d be God.”

There  was  a  moment’s  silence,  and  then  Danzhu  spoke  softly.  “I’m
afraid I don’t have such wild ambitions. If I loved someone, I could be his
beloved.  I  could  be  his  wife.  As  for  anything  else,  I—I  think  I  know  my
limits.”

The wind surged. Inside Chuanqing everything was blocked. He turned
his head away, his hands gripped the rail even more tightly. In a low voice
he said, “Then you don’t love me. Not even a little.”

“I’ve never thought about it before.”
“Because you take me for a girl.”
“No! No! Really… but…” At first she was embarrassed, then suddenly
she  was  irritated.  Frowning,  she  coughed  wearily  and  said,  “You  won’t
want to hear this, so why are you pushing me to say it?”

Chuanqing turned his back to her and said through clenched teeth, “You
take me for a girl. You… you… don’t even take me for a person!” He’d lost
control  of  his  voice,  and  by  the  time  he  got  to  the  end  he  was  almost
screaming.

Astonished,  and  without  thinking  about  it,  Danzhu  stepped  away  from
the railing above the cliff, finding a safer place. But then that struck her as
an overreaction, a ridiculous one. She steadied herself and spoke gently. “If
you want me to treat you like a man, that’s fine. I’ll do what you ask, and
I’ll certainly try to see you in a different light. But you have to show a bit of
manliness too. It doesn’t help when you keep crying all the time. So sickly,
so easily upset—”

Chuanqing laughed rudely. “You really know how to sweet talk a child!
‘Be good, don’t cry! Such a big boy now, it’s not good to cry!’ Ha-ha! Ha-
ha!” Laughing, he spun away and headed down the mountain on his own.

Danzhu  stood  there  in  confusion.  It  had  never  occurred  to  her  that
Chuanqing  was  in  love  with  her.  But  of  course,  it  wasn’t  at  all  unnatural.
There wasn’t anyone he was close to, and she was the only one who, time
and time again, had shown him a little kindness. She had led him on (even
though she hadn’t meant to), but she couldn’t satisfy his need. It was clear
that lately something had been bothering him a lot. Was it because of her?
When all was  said  and done, was  all this fuss  because  of her?  Here  she’d
wanted so much to help him, and she’d only hurt him! She couldn’t let him
go off in such a deranged state—if something happened to him she’d never
forgive herself!

His  selfishness,  his  rudeness,  his  unreasonable  behavior—  she  could
forgive him for everything, because he loved her. Such a weird person, and
even he was in love with her—that was very satisfying. Danzhu was a good
woman, but she was still a woman.

Already  he  was  quite  far  away,  but  in  the  end  she  caught  up.

“Chuanqing! Wait!” she shouted as she ran.

Chuanqing pretended not to hear. When she was at his side everything
seemed  complicated  again;  she  didn’t  know  what  to  say.  “Tell  me…  tell
me…” she began, still gasping for breath.

Chuanqing’s teeth were clenched. He spat the words out: “I’ll tell you—
I  wish  you  were  dead!  If  there’s  you,  there’s  no  me.  And  if  there’s  me,
there’s no you. Get it?”

With one arm he squeezed her around the shoulders hard, then, with his
free hand, he jammed her head down as sharply as he could, as if to jam it
into her chest. She shouldn’t have been born into this world, he wanted her
to  go  back.  He  didn’t  know  where  his  terrible  strength  came  from;  he
seemed to have lost control of his hands and feet. She didn’t cry out, but she
struggled,  and  the  two  of  them  tumbled  down  the  stone  steps  together.
Clambering  to  his  feet,  Chuanqing  kicked  furiously  at  the  body  on  the
ground.

He  kicked,  and  the  curses  came  flooding  from  his  mouth.  He  was
speaking  too  fast,  even  he  couldn’t  hear  himself  clearly,  but  it  was
something like: “So you think that I’m a goody-goody, do you? Out on the
mountain  in  the  middle  of  the  night,  just  you  and  me…  if  it  had  been
someone else you wouldn’t have felt so safe? You think that I’m not going
to  kiss  you,  or  beat  you,  or  murder  you,  is  that  it?  Is  that  it?  It’s  Nie
Chuanqing—don’t worry! ‘Don’t worry, Chuanqing will see me home!’…
You really think you know me!”

After  the  first  kicks,  she  moaned  softly.  Then  she  was  silent.  He  kept
kicking fiercely. He had to. He was afraid that she might still be alive. And
yet  he  was  also  scared  to  go  on.  His  legs  were  shaky  and  numb  from
kicking. Torn between these two fears, he finally left her there. He began to
run down the hill. His body seemed to be moving in a nightmare, sailing on
the clouds, riding on the mist like an immortal, his feet skimming above the
ground,  the  moon  shining  on  row  upon  row  of  stone  steps  that  pranced
boldly before his eyes, like agile lines of calligraphy.

When he had run quite some distance, he stopped. No one else on the
whole black mountain—just him and Danzhu. Seventy or eighty yards lay
between  them,  but  in  his  trance,  he  could  hear  her  whispery,  labored
breathing.  In that moment,  his  heart and hers  were  one. He  knew  that she
hadn’t died. And so? Did he have the courage to go back, to finish her off?

He  stood  there  motionless  for  two  or  three  minutes;  to  him  it  seemed
two or three hours. Then he started running downhill again. He didn’t stop
this time, he ran all the way down the hill to the road and the traffic.

The house was so cold, even the white plaster walls were frozen green.
There was no charcoal brazier in Chuanqing’s room, and the air was so cold
that his nose ached between breaths. The window had not been opened in a
very long time. The room smelled like greasy hair.

Chuanqing lay facedown on the bed. He heard his father, speaking to his
stepmother in the next room. “That child is getting crazy. See how late he’s
back from the dance!”

“It looks like we should find him a wife.”
Chuanqing’s tears ran, and his mouth twitched, as if he wanted to laugh.
But he couldn’t stir a muscle; it felt as if a shell of ice had frozen across his
face. His body was encased in ice too.

Danzhu  was  not  dead.  In  a  few  days,  when  classes  started  again,  he

would still have to see her at school. He couldn’t escape.

LOVE IN A FALLEN CITY

SHANGHAI’S  clocks  were  set  an  hour  ahead  so  the  city  could  “save
daylight,” but the Bai family said: “We go by the old clock.” Ten o’clock to
them was eleven to everyone else. Their singing was behind the beat; they
couldn’t keep up with the huqin of life.

When the huqin wails on a night often thousand lamps, the bow slides
back  and  forth,  drawing  forth  a  tale  too  desolate  for  words—oh!  why  go
into it? The tale of the huqin should be performed by a radiant entertainer,
two long streaks of rouge pointing to her exquisite nose as she sings, as she
smiles,  covering  her  mouth  with  her  sleeve…  but  here  it  was  just  Fourth
Master  Bai  sunk  in  darkness,  sitting  alone  on  a  ramshackle  balcony  and
playing the huqin.

As he was playing, the doorbell rang downstairs. For the Bai household,
this was most unusual; people didn’t pay social calls after dark, not in the
old  etiquette.  If  a  visitor  came  at  night  or  a  telegram  arrived  without
warning, either it meant that some event of huge import had transpired or,
most probably, someone had died.

Fourth  Master  sat  still  and  listened,  but  since  Third  Master,  Third
Mistress, and Fourth Mistress were shouting all at once as they came up the
stairs,  he  couldn’t  understand  what  they  were  saying.  Sitting  in  the  room
behind  the  balcony  were  Sixth  Young  Lady,  Seventh  Young  Lady,  and
Eighth Young Lady, along with the Third and Fourth Masters’ children, all
growing  increasingly  anxious.  From  where  Fourth  Master  sat  on  the
darkened balcony, he could see everything in the well-lit room. So when the
door opened, there was Third Master in his undershirt and shorts, standing
on  the  raised  doorsill  with  his  legs  stuck  out  wide,  reaching  behind  his
thighs  to  slap  at  the  mosquitoes,  and  calling  out  to  Fourth  Master:  “Hey,
Old Four, guess what? That fellow that Sixth Sister left, well, it seems he’s
caught pneumonia and died!”

Fourth  Master  put  down  the  huqin  and  walked  into  the  room.  “Who

brought the news?” he asked.

“Mrs.  Xu,”  said  Third  Master.  Then  he  turned  to  shoo  away  his  wife
with his fan. “Don’t tag along like this just to gawk at things! Isn’t Mrs. Xu
still downstairs? She’s a big lady, doesn’t like climbing stairs—why aren’t
you looking after her?”

Third  Mistress  left  and  Fourth  Master  mulled  things  over.  “Isn’t  Mrs.

Xu a relative of the deceased?”

“Indeed,”  said  Third  Master.  “It  looks  like  their  family  has  specially

asked her to bring us the news, and that means something, of course.”

“They don’t want Sixth Sister to return and go into mourning, do they?”
Third  Master  scratched  his  scalp  with  the  handle  of  the  fan.  “Well,

according to the rules, it would only be right…”

They both looked over at their Sixth Sister. Bai Liusu sat in the corner
of the room calmly embroidering a slipper; her brothers, it seems, had been
so intent on their conversation that they hadn’t given her a chance to speak.
Now she simply said, “Go and be his widow, after we’ve divorced? People
will  laugh  till  their  teeth  fall  out!”  She  went  on  sewing  her  slipper,
apparently unperturbed, but her palms were clammy and her needle stuck—
she couldn’t draw it through anymore.

“Sixth  Sister,  that’s  no  way  to  talk,”  said  Third  Master.  “He  didn’t  do
right  by you back then,  we  all know that. But now he’s dead—you’re  not
going to hold a grudge, are you? Those two concubines that he left behind,
they won’t go into widowhood If you go back now, all serious and proper,
to  lead  the  mourning  for  him,  who’s  going  to  dare  to  laugh?  It’s  true  you
didn’t have any children, but he has lots of nephews, and you can pick one
of them to continue the line. There isn’t a lot of property left, but they’re a
big  clan;  even  if  they  only  make  you  the  keeper  of  his  shrine,  they’re  not
going to let a mother and child starve.”

Bai  Liusu  laughed  sarcastically.  “Third  Brother  has  certainly  planned
out everything,” she said, “but unfortunately it’s a bit late. The divorce went
through  some  seven  or  eight  years  ago.  Are  you  saying  that  those  legal
proceedings were empty nonsense? You can’t fool around with the law!”

“Don’t  you  try  to  scare  us  with  the  law,”  Third  Master  warned.  “The
law is one thing today and another tomorrow. What I’m talking about is the
law  of  family  relations,  and  that  never  changes!  As  long  as  you  live  you
belong to his family, and after you die your ghost will belong to them too!
The tree may be a thousand feet tall, but the leaves fall back to the roots.”

Liusu stood up. “Why didn’t you say all this back then?”

“I was afraid you’d be upset and think that we weren’t willing to take

you in.”

“Oh? But now you’re not afraid of upsetting me? Now that you’ve spent

all my money, you’re not afraid of upsetting me?”

“I spent your money?” Third Master demanded, pressing his face close
to  hers.  “I  spent  your  few  paltry  coins?  You  live  in  our  house,  and
everything you eat and drink comes out of our pockets. Sure, in the past, it
was  no  problem.  One  more  person,  two  more  chopsticks,  that’s  all.  But
these  days?  Well,  just  go  and  find  out  for  yourself—what  does  rice  cost
now? I didn’t mention money, but you had to bring it up!”

Fourth  Mistress,  who  was  standing  behind  Third  Master,  laughed.
“They say you shouldn’t talk about money with your own flesh and blood.
Once you start the money talk, there’s all too much to say! I’ve been telling
Fourth  Master,  telling  him  for  a  long  time  now:  ‘Old  Four,  you’d  better
warn Third Master. When you two buy gold, or buy stocks, don’t use Sixth
Sister’s money. It will bring you bad luck! As soon as she got married, her
husband spent  all his  family’s money. Then  she came  back here,  and now
her family, as everyone can see, is going bankrupt. A real bad-luck comet,
that one!’ ”

Third  Master  said,  “Fourth  Mistress  is  right.  If  we  hadn’t  let  her  into

those stock deals, we never would have lost all our property!”

Liusu  shook  with  fury;  her  lower  jaw  quivered  so  hard  that  it  seemed

ready to drop off. She clamped the half-embroidered slipper to it.

Third  Master  continued:  “I  remember  how  you  came  home  crying,
making all that fuss about getting a divorce. Well, I’m a man with a heart,
and  when  I  saw  that  he’d  beaten  you  up  like  that,  I  couldn’t  bear  it,  so  I
struck my chest and said, ‘All right! I, the third son of the Bai family, may
be  poor,  but  my  home  shall  not  lack  my  sister’s  bowl  of  rice.’  Still,  my
thinking was: ‘Oh, you young married folk—what hot tempers you’ve got!
It’s  never  so  serious  that,  after  a  few  years  back  with  your  parents,  you
won’t up and change your mind one day, and be perfectly ready to go back.’
If  I’d  known  that  you  two  really  wanted  to  break  it  off,  do  you  think  I
would have helped you get a divorce? Breaking up other peoples’ marriages
means  there  won’t  be  any  sons  or  grandsons.  I,  the  third  son  of  the  Bai
family, am a man with sons, and I fully expect their support in my old age.”
Liusu had now reached the height of fury, but she simply laughed. “Yes,
yes, everything is my fault. You’re poor? It’s because I’ve eaten you out of

house and home. You’ve lost your capital? It must be that I’ve led you on.
Your sons die? I’ve done it to you, I’ve ruined your fate.”

At this, Fourth Mistress grabbed her son’s collar and rammed his head
into Liusu, shouting, “Cursing the children now! After what you’ve said, if
my son dies, I’ll come looking for you!”

Liusu  quickly  dodged  out  of  the  way,  then  clasped  Fourth  Master  and

said, “Fourth Brother, look, just look, and be fair about it!”

Fourth Master said, “Now don’t get so excited. If you have something to
say,  then  say  it,  and  we’ll  take  our  time  and  consider  the  whole  situation
carefully. Third Brother is only trying to help you…” Liusu angrily let go of
him and headed straight for the inner bedroom.

No lamps were lit in there. Peering through the red gauze bed curtains
in the darkness, Liusu could dimly see her mother lying on the big redwood
bed, slowly waving a round white fan. Liusu walked over to the bed, then
slipped  down  to  her  knees  and  fell  forward  against  it.  “Mother!”  she
sobbed.

Old  Mrs.  Bai’s  hearing  was  still  good,  so  she  hadn’t  missed  anything
that had been said in the outer room. She coughed, felt around next to her
pillow for a small spittoon, spat into it, and only then began to speak. “Your
Fourth Sister-in-law has a sharp tongue, but that doesn’t mean you should
follow suit. We all have our own problems, you know. Your Fourth Sister-
in-law is naturally strong willed—she’s always managed the household. But
your Fourth Brother is not ambitious, and he threw himself into gambling
and visits to prostitutes. It’s bad enough that he made himself ill, but then
he took money from the household accounts: your Fourth Sister-in-law lost
face  because  of  that,  and  now  she  has  to  let  Third  Sister-in-law  manage
things.  She’s  boiling  over  with  frustration,  and  that’s  a  hard  way  to  live.
Your  Third  Sister-in-law  doesn’t  have  a  lot  of  energy,  and  running  this
household is no easy matter! You should bear all this in mind. Try to make
allowances.”

When  Liusu  heard  her  mother’s  tone  and  the  way  she  played  things
down, she felt that her point had been completely overlooked; she couldn’t
find any reply to make.

Old Mrs. Bai rolled over and faced the wall. “Lately we’ve had to hunt
everywhere  to  scrape  up  any  money  at  all.  Time  was,  we  could  sell  some
land and live off the proceeds a few years. But that’s no longer possible. I’m
old,  and  when  it’s  time  for  me  to  go,  I’ll  go,  and  I  won’t  be  able  to  look

after any of you. Every party ends sometime. Staying on with me is not a
feasible long-term plan. Going back is the decent thing to do. Take a child
to live with you, get through the next fifteen years or so, and you’ll prevail
in the end.”

As she was speaking, the doorway curtain moved. “Who’s there?” Old

Mrs. Bai said.

Poking  her  head  through  the  curtain,  Fourth  Mistress  came  in.
“Mother,”  she  said,  “Mrs.  Xu  is  still  downstairs  waiting  to  talk  with  you
about Seventh Sister’s marriage.”

“I’m just getting up,” Old Mrs. Bai said. “Let’s have some light.”
When the lamp had been lit, Fourth Mistress helped the old lady to sit

up, then waited on her as she got dressed and out of bed.

“Has Mrs. Xu found a suitable match?” the old lady asked.
“An excellent one, from what she says, though he is a bit older.”
Old Mrs. Bai coughed. “This child Baolu is twenty-four now, and she’s
a  knot  in  my  heart.  All  this  worry  for  her  sake,  and  yet  people  say  I’m
neglecting her because she’s not my own daughter!”

Fourth  Mistress  helped  the  old  lady  toward  the  outer  room.  “Take  out
my new tea leaves from over there and brew a bowl for Mrs. Xu,” said the
old lady. “The Dragon Well tea that Great Aunt brought back last year is in
the green tin canister, the Green Spring is in the tall canister. Be sure to get
it right.”

Fourth  Mistress  nodded,  then  called  out:  “We’re  coming!  Turn  up  the
lamps!”  Footsteps  pounded  as  a  small  throng  of  sturdy  young  servants
hurried over to help an older maid carry the old lady down the stairs.

Fourth  Mistress  was  alone  in  the  outer  room,  rifling  through  cabinets
and trunks in search of the old lady’s private stock of tea leaves. Suddenly
she cried out, “Seventh Sister! What hole did you climb out of? Scared me
half to death! Where did you disappear to just now?”

“I was sitting in the cool air out on the balcony,” Baolu murmured.
“Bashful, eh?” Fourth Mistress snickered. “I say, Seventh Sister, when
you go to live with your in-laws, try to be a little careful. Don’t feel you can
make  trouble  whenever  you  like.  Is  divorce  an  easy  thing?  Can  you  just
leave when you like, let everything fall apart? If it really was that easy, why
haven’t I divorced your Fourth Brother, since he’s never amounted to much!
I too have my own family, it’s not as if I don’t have a place to run to. But in
times like these I have to think of their needs too. I’ve got a conscience, and

I  have  to  think  of  them—  can’t  weigh  them  down  and  drive  them  into
poverty. I still have some sense of shame!”

Bai Liusu was kneeling forlornly by her mother’s bed. When she heard
these  words,  she  crushed  the  embroidered  slipper  against  her  chest.  The
needle that was stuck in the slipper pierced her hand, but she didn’t feel any
pain. “I can’t live in this house any longer,” she whispered. “I just can’t!”
Her voice was faint and floating, like a trailing tendril of dust. She felt as if
she  were  dreaming,  tendrils  streaming  from  her  face  and  head.  Falling
forward in a daze, she thought she was clasping her mother’s knees, and she
started sobbing aloud. “Mother, Mother, please help me!” Her mother’s face
remained blank as she smiled on without saying a word. Wrapping her arms
around  her  mother’s  legs,  Liusu  shook  her  violently  and  cried,  “Mother!
Mother!”

In  her  daze,  it  was  many  years  before:  she  was  about  ten  years  old,
coming out of a theater, and in the middle of a torrential downpour she was
separated  from  her  family.  She  stood  alone  on  the  sidewalk  staring  at
people,  the  people  staring  back  at  her,  and  beyond  the  dripping  bus
windows, on the other side of those blank glass shields, were strangers, an
endless  number  of  them,  all  locked  inside  their  own  little  worlds,  against
which she could slam her head till it split—and still she’d never manage to
break through. It seemed that she was trapped in a nightmare.

Suddenly she heard the sound of footsteps behind her, and guessed that
her mother had returned. With a fierce effort she steadied herself, not saying
anything.  The  mother  she  was  praying  to  and  the  mother  she  really  had
were two different people.

Someone walked over to the bed and sat down, but when she spoke, it
was in Mrs. Xu’s voice. Mrs. Xu chided her, “Sixth Young Lady, don’t be
upset. Get up, get up, the weather is so hot…”

Bracing  herself  against  the  bed,  Liusu  struggled  to  her  feet.  “Auntie,”
she  said,  “I  can’t  stay  here  in  this  house  any  longer.  I’ve  known  for  ages
how  much  they  resent  me,  even  if  they  bite  their  tongues.  But  now  that
they’ve beat the drums, banged the gongs, and said it straight out, I’ve lost
too much face to go on living here!”

Mrs. Xu made Liusu sit down with her on the edge of the bed. “You’re
too  good,  no  wonder  people  bully  you,”  she  said  tenderly.  “Your  older
brothers played the market with your money until they’d spent it all! Even
if they supported you for the rest of your life, it would only be right.”

Liusu rarely heard such a decent remark. Without pausing to weigh its
sincerity, she let her heart well up and her tears rain down. “Why was I such
a fool? All because of that fuss over money, little bits of money, now I have
no way out of here!”

Mrs.  Xu  said,  “Someone  so  young  can  always  find  a  way  to  make  a

life.”

“If  there  were  a  way,  I’d  be  long  gone!  I  haven’t  studied  much,  and  I

can’t do manual labor, so what kind of job can I do?”

“Looking  for  a  job  won’t  get  you  anywhere.  But  looking  for  a

somebody, that’s the way to go.”

“No, I don’t think so. My life is over already.”
“That  kind  of  talk  is  for  the  rich,  for  people  who  don’t  have  to  worry
about food and clothing. People who don’t have money can’t just give up,
even if they want to. Shave your head, become a nun, and when you beg for
alms you’ll still have to deal with people—you can’t just leave the human
race!”

Liusu bowed her head.
Mrs. Xu said, “If you’d come to me about this a few years ago it would

have been better.”

“Yes, that’s right,” said Liusu. “I’m already twenty-eight.”
“For a person with your qualities, twenty-eight doesn’t matter. I’ll keep
you in mind. But I really should scold you—you’ve been divorced for seven
or  eight  years  now.  If  only  you’d  made  up  your  mind  earlier,  you  could
have set yourself free and saved yourself a lot of grief!”

“Auntie,  of  course  you  know  the  situation.  Would  a  family  like  mine
ever let us go out and meet people? And I can’t depend on them to find me
a match.  First  of all, they  don’t approve,  and even if  they  did,  I  have two
younger sisters who are still unmarried, and then there are Third and Fourth
Brothers’  daughters,  all  growing  up  fast.  They  can’t  even  manage  for  the
younger ones. Why would they do anything for me?”

“Speaking  of  your  sister,”  Mrs.  Xu  said,  “I’m  still  waiting  for  their

reply.”

“Do things look good for Seventh Sister?” asked Liusu.
“I think we’re getting close,” said Mrs. Xu. “I wanted to let the ladies
talk it over among themselves, so I said I’d come up here to look in on you.
I’d better be getting back now. Would you go down with me?”

Liusu had to help Mrs. Xu down the stairs. The stairs were old and Mrs.
Xu  was  large:  they  creaked  and  squeaked  down  the  stairs  together.  They
entered the drawing room, and Liusu wanted to light the lamps, but Mrs. Xu
said,  “Don’t  bother,  we  can  see  well  enough.  The  others  are  in  the  east
wing.  You  come  with  me,  and  we’ll  all  have  a  nice  chat,  and  that  way
everything  will  be  smoothed  over.  Otherwise,  tomorrow  when  it’s  time  to
eat, and you can’t avoid seeing them, it will be awkward and unpleasant.”

Liusu  couldn’t  bear  hearing  that  phrase  “time  to  eat.”  Her  heart  ached
and  her  throat  went  dry.  Forcing  a  smile,  she  demurred.  “Thank  you  very
much,  Auntie,  but  I’m  not  feeling  very  well  right  now—I  really  can’t  see
anyone. I’m afraid I’d be so nervous that I’d say something disastrous, and
that would be a terrible way to repay all your kindness.”

Seeing  that  Liusu  refused  to  budge,  Mrs.  Xu  decided  to  leave  things

where they stood. She went in by herself.

As  soon  as  the  door  closed  behind  her,  the  drawing  room  fell  into
shadow. Two squares of yellow light streamed in through the glass panes in
the  upper  part  of  the  door,  landing  on  the  green  tile  floor.  In  spite  of  the
gloom, one could see, on the bookshelves that lined the walls, long rows of
slipcases made of purplish sandalwood into which formal-script characters
had been carved, then painted green. On a plain wooden table in the middle
of the room, there was a cloisonne chiming clock with a glass dome over it.
The clock was broken; it hadn’t worked in years. There were two hanging
scrolls  with  paired  verses;  the  crimson  paper  of  the  scrolls  was  embossed
with gold “longevity” characters, over which the verses had been inscribed
in  big,  black  strokes.  In  the  dim  light,  each  word  seemed  to  float  in
emptiness, far from the paper’s surface. Liusu felt like one of those words,
drifting and unconnected. The Bai household was a fairyland where a single
day, creeping slowly by, was a thousand years in the outside world. But if
you spent a thousand years here, all the days would be the same, each one
as flat and dull as the last one.

She crossed her arms and clasped her neck with her hands. Seven, eight
years—they’d  gone  by  in  the  blink  of  an  eye.  Are  you  still  young?  Don’t
worry,  in  another  few  years  you’ll  be  old,  and  anyway  youth  isn’t  worth
much  here.  They’ve  got  youth  everywhere—children  born  one  after
another,  with  their  bright  new  eyes,  their  tender  new  mouths,  their  quick
new wits. Time grinds on, year after year, and the eyes grow dull, the minds
grow  dull,  and  then  another  round  of  children  is  born.  The  older  ones  are

sucked  into  that  obscure  haze  of  crimson  and  gold,  and  the  tiny  flecks  of
glinting gold are the frightened eyes of their predecessors.

Liusu cried out, covered her eyes, and fled; her feet beat a rapid retreat
up  the  stairs  to  her  own  room.  She  turned  on  the  lamp,  moved  it  to  her
dressing  table,  and  studied  her  reflection  in  the  mirror.  Good  enough:  she
wasn’t too old yet. She had the kind of slender figure that doesn’t show age
—her  waist  eternally  thin,  her  breasts  girlishly  budding.  Her  face  had
always been as white as porcelain, but now it had changed from porcelain
to jade—semitranslucent jade with a tinge of pale green. Once, her cheeks
had  been  plump;  now  they  were  drawn,  so  that  her  small  face  seemed
smaller  yet,  and  even  more  attractive.  Her  face  was  fairly  narrow,  but  her
eyes were set well apart. They were clear, lively, and slightly coquettish.

Out on the balcony, Fourth Master had once again taken up his huqin.
The tune rose and fell, and Liusu’s head tilted to one side as her eyes and
hands started moving through dance poses. As she performed in the mirror,
the huqin no longer sounded like a huqin, but like strings and flutes playing
a solemn court dance. She took a few paces to the right, then a few to the
left. Her steps seemed to trace the lost rhythms of an ancient melody.

Suddenly, she smiled—a private, malevolent smile; the music came to a
discordant halt. The huqin went on playing outside, but it was telling tales
of  fealty  and  filial  piety,  chastity  and  righteousness:  distant  tales  that  had
nothing to do with her.

Fourth Master had retreated to the balcony because he knew he lacked
standing in the family council downstairs. Once Mrs. Xu had left, the Bai
family  had  to  thoroughly  assess  every  aspect  of  her  proposal.  Mrs.  Xu
planned to help Baolu make a match with a Mr. Fan, who had recently been
working  quite  closely  with  Mr.  Xu  in  the  mining  business.  Mrs.  Xu  had
always kept track of his family and their situation, and she believed him to
be  entirely  reliable.  Mr.  Fan’s  father  was  a  well-known  overseas  Chinese
with properties scattered throughout Ceylon, Malaya, and other such places.
Fan  Liuyuan  was  now  thirty-two  years  old,  and  both  of  his  parents  had
passed away.

Everyone in the Bai family kept asking Mrs. Xu how such a perfect son-
in-law  could  still  be  single,  and  she  told  them  that  when  Fan  Liuyuan
returned  from  England,  a  whole  passel  of  mothers  had  forcefully,
insistently,  pushed  their  daughters  at  him.  They  had  schemed  and
squabbled, pulling every trick in the book and making a huge fuss over him.

This had completely spoiled Mr. Fan; from then on he took women to be so
much  mud  under  his  feet.  He’d  always  been  a  bit  odd  anyway,  due  to  his
unusual  childhood—his  parents  weren’t  officially  married.  His  father  met
his  mother  in  London,  when  he  was  touring  Europe.  She  was  an  overseas
Chinese, a girl often seen at parties, and the marriage had been kept secret.
Then Fan’s first wife got wind of it. Fearing that the first wife would take
revenge, the couple never dared to go back to China, and Fan Liuyuan grew
up in England. After his father’s death, Liuyuan sought legal recognition of
his rights; even though the first wife had only daughters, two of them, there
was  still  quite  a  bit  of  nastiness.  He  was  all  alone  in  England,  and  went
through some hard times, but at last he got the right to inherit his father’s
estate.  The  Fan  family  was  still  very  hostile  toward  him,  so  he  lived  in
Shanghai most of the time, returning to the family home in Guangzhou only
when  absolutely  necessary.  The  unstable  emotional  environment  of  his
early years had left its mark on him, and gradually he became a playboy—
he gambled, he gourmandized, he visited prostitutes. The only pleasure he
denied himself was married bliss.

“A  man  like  this  is  probably  very  picky,”  said  Fourth  Mistress.  “I’m
afraid he might look down on Seventh Sister because she’s the daughter of a
concubine. It would be a shame to lose so good a connection!”

“But he too is the child of a secondary wife,” said Third Master.
“He’s  a  very  clever  man,  though,”  said  Fourth  Mistress.  “Can  our
Number  Seven,  who  is  such  a  dolt,  ever  hope  to  catch  him?  My  eldest
daughter, on the other hand, is very quick. Don’t be fooled by looks—she is
still young but she is smart! She knows how to behave.”

“But there’s such a difference in their ages,” said Third Mistress.
Fourth Mistress snorted. “You don’t know! This kind of man likes them

young. If my eldest won’t do, there’s always her younger sister.”

Third Mistress laughed. “Your second daughter is twenty years younger

than Mr. Fan!”

Fourth Mistress quietly tugged at her sister-in-law’s arm, a serious look
on  her  face.  “Third  Sister,  don’t  be  so  foolish!  You’re  protecting  Number
Seven,  but  what  is  she  to  the  Bai  family?  Having  another  mother  really
makes a big difference. No one here should hope for any benefit after she
gets married! What I’m saying is for the good of the family.”

But Old Mrs. Bai’s chief concern was her fear that relatives would say
she’d  wronged  a  motherless  girl.  She  decided  to  pursue  the  plan  that  had

been first proposed. Mrs. Xu would set up a meeting, and Baolu would be
introduced to Fan Liuyuan.

Mrs. Xu, in a two-pronged attack, also scouted for Liusu. She found a
Mr.  Jiang,  who  worked  in  the  customs  office.  His  wife  had  recently  died,
leaving five children behind, and now he was very anxious to remarry. Mrs.
Xu  thought  it  best  to  take  care  of  Baolu  first,  and  then  make  a  match  for
Liusu, because Fan Liuyuan would soon be leaving for Singapore. The Bai
household looked at Liusu’s remarriage as some kind of joke, but since they
wanted to get her out of the house they ignored the whole business, letting
Mrs.  Xu  manage  it.  For  Baolu,  however,  they  fell  all  over  themselves,
bustling  about  with  great  fanfare,  turning  the  house  upside  down.  Two
daughters in the same house, but one got lots of attention and the other got
cold silence. The contrast was painfully obvious.

Old Mrs. Bai was not satisfied until she had dressed Baolu in every last
stitch of the family’s best finery. Third Mistress’s daughter had received a
length  of  silk  as  a  birthday  present  from  her  godmother.  Old  Mrs.  Bai
forced  Third  Mistress  to  hand  it  over,  and  then  she  had  it  made  into  a
cheongsam for Baolu. The old lady’s private cache of fine goods consisted
mostly of furs, and since furs couldn’t be worn in the summertime, she had
to  pawn  a  sable  jacket,  then  use  the  money  to  have  several  old  pieces  of
jewelry reset. Of course Baolu was also given pearl earrings, jade bracelets,
and  emerald  rings  to  wear.  Everyone  wanted  to  make  sure  she  was  fully
adorned, a glittering beauty.

On  the  appointed  day,  Old  Mrs.  Bai,  Third  Master,  Third  Mistress,
Fourth  Master,  and  Fourth  Mistress  all  wanted  to  go  along.  Baolu  had
learned,  in  a  roundabout  way,  of  Fourth  Mistress’s  plot  against  her.  She
fumed in secret, determined not to let Fourth Mistress’s daughters anywhere
near her when she made her entrance. But since she couldn’t very well say
that she didn’t want the girls there, she insisted instead that Liusu go with
her.  After  seven  people  had  been  crammed  into  the  taxicab,  there  really
wasn’t  room  for  any  more,  so  the  two  girls,  Jinzhi  and  Jinzhan,  forlornly
stayed behind.

They left at five o’clock in the afternoon, and didn’t return until eleven
that  evening.  How  could  Jinzhi  and  Jinzhan  relax  and  go  to  sleep?  They
were  wide-eyed  with  anticipation  when  everyone  came  home,  but  no  one
had  anything  to  say.  Baolu  walked  into  Old  Mrs.  Bai’s  room  with  a  long
face, stripped off all her jewels and ornaments, gave them back to the old

lady  and,  without  a  word,  went  to  her  room.  Jinzhi  and  Jinzhan  dragged
their  mother  out  to  the  balcony  and  begged  her  to  tell  them  what  had
happened.

“I’ve  never  seen  anything  like  you  girls,”  Fourth  Mistress  snapped.
“You’re not the ones whose match is being made— and here you are all hot
and bothered!”

Third  Mistress  followed  them  onto  the  balcony.  “Don’t  say  things  she

might take the wrong way,” she said softly.

Fourth  Mistress  turned  to  face  Liusu’s  room  and  shouted,  “I  may  be
pointing at the mulberry but I’m cursing the locust tree. And why shouldn’t
I  curse  her?  It’s  not  as  if  she  hadn’t  seen  a  man  for  a  thousand  years!  So
why does she act crazy, all worked up and woozy the minute she catches a
whiff of one?”

Jinzhi  and  Jinzhan  were  bewildered  by  their  mother’s  outburst.  Third
Sister managed to calm her down, then told the girls, “First we went to see a
movie.”

“See a movie?” Jinzhi was quite surprised.
“Yes—quite  quite  strange,  isn’t  it?”  Third  Mistress  said.  “The  whole
point of the  meeting was  for  them to  see each other, but  there in  the  dark
you can’t see anything. Later, Mrs. Xu said this was all Mr. Fan’s idea—that
it was a ploy of his. He wanted her to sit around for a couple hours, till the
sweat  made  her  makeup  run  and  he  could  get  a  better  look.  That’s  what
Mrs. Xu thinks. I think Mr. Fan never was sincere about this. He wanted to
see  a  movie  because  he  didn’t  want  to  talk  with  us.  Didn’t  he  try  to  slip
away as soon as the movie ended?”

Fourth  Mistress  couldn’t  hold  back.  “What  do  you  mean?  Everything
was  going  very well.  If  it hadn’t been for  that troublemaker  we  took  with
us, we’d be halfway there by now!”

“Then what? Then what?” Jinzhi and Jinzhan frantically implored their

aunt.

“Well, then Mrs. Xu stopped Mr. Fan and said we should all go and get

something to eat. Mr. Fan said it would be his treat.”

Fourth Mistress clapped her hands together. “If we were going to get a
bite to eat, then that’s what we should have done. It’s obvious that Seventh
Sister doesn’t know how to dance, so why’d we go to a dance hall and then
just  sit  around?  You  won’t  hear  me  saying  it,  but,  really,  this  was  Third

Master’s  fault.  He  goes  out.  He  knows  the  town.  He  should  have  said
something when Mr. Fan told the cabdriver to go to a dance hall.”

“So  many  restaurants  in  Shanghai,”  Third  Mistress  rose  in  defense.
“How could he know which ones have dancing, and which ones don’t? He
hasn’t  got  the  leisure  to  go  around  finding  out  things  like  that—the  way
Fourth Master does!”

Jinzhi  and  Jinzhan  still  wanted  to  hear  the  rest  of  the  story,  but  Third
Mistress  had  been  challenged  by  Fourth  Mistress  so  many  times  that  now
she lost interest. “So we went to get a bite to eat, and then we came home.”

“What kind of person is this Mr. Fan?” Jinzhan asked.
“How should I know?” said Third Mistress. “I don’t think we got three
whole sentences out of him.” She thought for a moment. “He dances pretty
well, though.”

Jinzhi let out a small gasp. “Who did he dance with?”
Fourth Mistress cut in. “Who else? Your Sixth Aunt of course! People
who  are  properly  brought  up,  people  like  us,  aren’t  taught  to  dance.  But
your  Sixth  Aunt  learned  it  all  from  that  no-good  husband  of  hers.  Utterly
shameless! Someone asks you to dance, can’t you say you don’t know how,
and let it go at that? There’s no shame in not knowing how to dance. Look
at your Third Aunt—look at me—we’re all from good families, we’ve been
around long enough to see something of the world. We don’t dance!”

Third Mistress sighed. “One dance, well, you could say it was just to be

polite. But two, three dances!”

Jinzhi and Jinzhan were flabbergasted.
Fourth Mistress turned again toward a certain doorway and vented her
ire. “You’ve got a heart smeared with pig fat! If you think that by ruining
your sister’s chances you are going to get lucky, you’d better forget it! He’s
turned  down  so  many  ladies,  do  you  think  he’d  want  a  soiled  flower  like
you?”

Liusu  and  Baolu  shared  a  room,  and  Baolu  had  already  gone  to  bed.
Liusu  crouched  down  in  the  dark  and  lit  a  stick  of  mosquito-repellant
incense. She’d heard everything that had been said out on the balcony, but
this time she was perfectly calm. She struck the match and watched it burn,
the little three-cornered pennant of flaming red flickering in its own draft,
coming  closer  and  closer  toward  her  fingers.  With  a  puff  of  her  lips,  she
blew  it  out,  leaving  only  the  glowing  red  flag-pole.  The  pole  twisted  and

shrank into a curly gray fiendish shape. She tossed the dead match into the
incense pan.

She  hadn’t  planned  the  evening’s  events,  but  in  any  case  she’d  shown
them  a  thing  or  two.  So  they  thought  she  was  finished,  that  her  life  was
already  over?  The  game  was  just  beginning!  She  smiled.  Baolu  must  be
cursing  her  silently,  far  more  fiercely  even  than  Fourth  Mistress.  But  she
knew that as much as Baolu hated her, the younger woman’s heart was also
full  of  respect  and  admiration.  No  matter  how  amazing  a  woman  is,  she
won’t be respected by her own sex unless she’s loved by a member of the
opposite one. Women are petty this way.

Was it really  true  that Fan Liuyuan  liked her?  Not certain  in  the  least.
All  those  things he’d said—she didn’t believe  a word  of it. She could  tell
that he was used to lying to women, she’d have to be very careful. Family,
family everywhere, and no one to turn to—she was on her own. Her moon-
white silk gauze cheongsam hung from the bed frame. Twisting around, she
sat on the floor and hid her face in the long skirt. Puff after steady puff, the
green smoke of the mosquito-repellent incense floated up, seeping into her
brain. Her eyes gleamed with tears.

A few days later, Mrs. Xu returned to the Bai residence. Fourth Mistress
had already predicted: “After the scene Sixth Sister made, Seventh Sister’s
chances  are  ruined.  How  could  Mrs.  Xu fail  to  be angry?  And if  Mrs.  Xu
was  angry  with  Sixth  Sister,  would  she  still  be  willing  to  help  her  by
making useful introductions? This was a case of ‘trying to steal a chicken
with a handful of grain, and losing both bird and bait.’ ”

And it was true: Mrs. Xu was not as enthusiastic as she had been. She
started out by beating around the bush, explaining why she hadn’t come by
in a while. Her husband had some business to take care of in Hong Kong,
and,  if  all  went  well,  they  would  be  going  there,  renting  a  house,  and
staying for about a year. That was why she’d been so busy the last few days,
packing up and getting ready to go. As for the Baolu project, Mr. Fan had
already left Shanghai, so they’d have to let it rest for the time being. And
Mrs.  Xu  had  just  found  out  that  Mr.  Jiang,  Liusu’s  potential  match,  had
another woman in his life. Trying to drive a wedge between them would be
no easy matter. Anyway, this kind of person really wasn’t reliable; it might
be  better  to  give  it  up.  When  Third  and  Fourth  Mistress  heard  this,  they
exchanged glances and smirked.

Mrs.  Xu  furrowed  her  brow  and  continued:  “My  husband  has  a  lot  of
friends in Hong Kong, but the problem is that ‘distant water can’t put out a
nearby  fire’…  If  Sixth  Young  Lady  could  go  to  Hong  Kong  for  a  bit,
probably she’d find a lot of opportunities. Over the past few years, so many
Shanghainese men have gone to Hong Kong that the place is teeming with
to  be  with  other
talented 
Shanghainese, and people are saying that young ladies from back home are
very popular. If Sixth Young Lady went, there’s no doubt she’d find a good
match. She could grab a handful and take her pick.”

types.  Naturally,  Shanghai  men  prefer 

Everyone  felt  that  Mrs.  Xu  really  had  a  way  with  words.  A  few  days
ago her grand plans had come to naught, leaving her high and dry, and yet
here she was putting up a good front, etc. Old Mrs. Bai sighed. “Going to
Hong Kong,” she said. “Easier said than done! After all—”

To everyone’s surprise, Mrs. Xu cheerfully interrupted. “If Sixth Young
Lady wants to go, she can go as my guest. I agreed to help her, so I should
see it through.”

At this, they all turned to one another, blinking with amazement. Even
Liusu was taken aback. Mrs. Xu’s volunteering to make a match for her—
that had been impulsive and good-hearted, born of a real sympathy for her
situation.  Running  around  fixing  things  up,  arranging  a  dinner  party,
inviting  that  Mr.  Jiang—such  generosity  was  not  unheard  of.  But  paying
Liusu’s fare and expenses and taking her to Hong Kong— Mrs. Xu would
be shelling out a lot of-money, and for what? There may be lots of virtuous
people in this world, but they aren’t so stupid as to throw good money away
for virtue’s sake. Mrs. Xu must have a backer. Could it be a plot hatched by
that  Fan  Liuyuan?  Mrs.  Xu  had  said  that  her  husband  had  close  business
ties with Fan Liuyuan, and she and her husband were probably eager to help
him out. Sacrificing some poor and lonely little relative to score points with
him—that was a distinct possibility.

While Liusu’s mind was racing, Old Mrs. Bai said, “Oh, this won’t do.

We can’t let you—”

Mrs.  Xu  laughed  this  off.  “It’s  no  problem.  A  little  thing  like  this—of
course I can manage it! Anyway, I want Sixth Young Lady to help me. I’ve
got two children, and high blood pressure, and I shouldn’t let myself get too
tired. If she travels with us, there will be someone to take care of things. I
won’t pamper her, I’ll want her to help out quite a lot!”

Old Mrs. Bai came up with a stream of polite replies on Liusu’s behalf.
Mrs. Xu turned, and opened a direct attack. “Well, Sixth Young Lady, you
really should agree to go with us. Just think of it as sightseeing, and it will
be worth it!”

Liusu bowed her head, and said with a smile, “You’re really too good to

me.”

She  made  a  rapid  calculation.  There  was  no  hope  of  getting  that  Mr.
Jiang,  and  even  if  someone  made  another  match  for  her,  it  wouldn’t  be
much  different  from  Jiang,  maybe  not  even  that  good.  Liusu’s  father  had
been  a  famous  gambler.  He’d  gambled  away  the  family’s  fortune  and
started  its  descent  into  the  ranks  of  poor,  declining  households.  Liusu  had
never  touched  cards  or  dice,  but  she  too  liked  to  gamble.  She  decided  to
wager her future. If she lost, her reputation would be ruined, and even the
role of stepmother to five children would be far above her. If she won, she’d
get the prize the whole crowd was eyeing like so many greedy tigers—Fan
Liuyuan—and all her stifled rancor would be swept clean away.

She agreed to Mrs. Xu’s plan, which called for leaving within the week.
Liusu  rushed  to  get  ready.  Even  though  she  didn’t  have  much,  and  there
really wasn’t anything to pack, she was intensely busy for several days. She
raised some cash by selling a few trinkets, then had some outfits made. Mrs.
Xu, though she too was very busy, found time to give Liusu the benefit of
her advice. When the Bai family saw Mrs. Xu being so kind to Liusu, they
became  freshly  interested  in  her.  They  were  still  very  distrustful,  but  now
they  were  more  cautious,  holding  long  whispered  consultations  behind
Liusu’s back instead of spitefully scolding her to her face. Once in a while
they  even  addressed  her  quite  respectfully,  thinking  that  if  she  really
married a rich man in Hong Kong and returned home in glory, they’d better
be on speaking terms with her. It wouldn’t do to offend her.

The Xu family took Liusu with them, in a car, to the dock. They had a
first-class  cabin  on  a  Dutch  ship.  But  the  ship  was  small  and  pitched
violently, and as soon as they had boarded, Mr. and Mrs. Xu collapsed into
their  berths.  What  with  the  adults  retching  and  the  children  crying,  Liusu
really did wait on them for several days.

Not until the ship had finally reached the shore did she have a chance to
go up on deck and gaze out at the sea. It was a fiery afternoon, and the most
striking part of the view was the parade of giant billboards along the dock,
their reds, oranges, and pinks mirrored in the lush green water. Below the

surface of the water, bars and blots of clashing color plunged in murderous
confusion.  Liusu  found  herself  thinking  that  in  a  city  of  such  hyperboles,
even a sprained ankle would hurt more than it did in other places. Her heart
began to pound.

Suddenly someone rushed up from behind, grabbing her legs and almost
knocking her down. Liusu gasped, then realized that it was one of the Xu
children. She quickly steadied herself, and went back to help Mrs. Xu. The
dozen suitcases and two children refused to match up; no sooner were the
bags  in  order  than  a  child  went  missing  again.  Worn  out  by  her  labors,
Liusu stopped gazing at the scenery.

After disembarking, they took two taxis to the Repulse Bay Hotel. They
left  the  teeming  city  behind,  the  taxis  rising  and  dipping  across  the  hilly
terrain.  Soon  cliffs  of  yellow-and-red  soil  flanked  the  road,  while  ravines
opened up on either side to reveal dense green forest or aquamarine sea. As
they  approached  Repulse  Bay,  the  cliffs  and  trees  grew  gentler  and  more
inviting.  Returning  picnickers  swept  past  them  in  cars  filled  with  flowers,
the sound of scattered laughter fading in the wind.

When they arrived at the hotel entrance, they couldn’t actually see the
hotel. They got out of the car and climbed up a broad flight of stone steps.
Not  until  they  had  reached  the  top,  where  an  ornamental  garden  was  laid
out,  could  they  see  two  yellow  buildings  farther  up.  Mr.  Xu  had  already
reserved their rooms, so the hotel staff led them along a small gravel path,
through the amber dimness of the lobby and hallway, then up to the second
floor.  They  turned  a  corner,  and  there,  through  a  doorway,  was  a  small
balcony,  with  vines  flowering  on  a  trellis  and  sunlight  slanting  across  one
section of the wall.

Two  people  were  standing  on  the  balcony  and  talking.  One  was  a
woman. She stood with her back toward them, her long black hair hanging
down to her ankles. She wore anklets of twisted gold over her bare feet; it
wasn’t clear whether she was wearing slippers or not, but above the anklets
one could just make out the slim, Indian-style trousers. The man called out,
“Ah,  Mrs.  Xu!”  and  then  walked  toward  them;  he  greeted  the  couple  and
nodded, with a suppressed smile, at Liusu.

Liusu  saw  that  it  was  Fan  Liuyuan  and  her  heart  raced  again,  even
though  she’d  already  guessed  that  he’d  be  here.  The  woman  who’d  been
standing  on  the  balcony  went  off  somewhere.  Liuyuan  accompanied  them
up  the  stairs.  As  they  walked,  everyone  kept  saying  how  surprised  and

happy they were, just as if they’d run into an old friend, quite unexpectedly,
while traveling far from home.

Fan Liuyuan couldn’t really be called handsome, but he was attractive
in a rugged sort of way. Mr. and Mrs. Xu supervised the porters with their
luggage, and Liuyuan and Liusu walked ahead. “Mr. Fan,” inquired Liusu
with a glint of a smile, “it seems you haven’t gone to Singapore.”
“No, I’ve been waiting here for you,” Liuyuan said lightly.
It  had  never  occurred  to  Liusu  that  he  would  be  so  direct.  She  didn’t
inquire further, afraid that if he went on to say that it was he, not Mrs. Xu,
who had invited her to Hong Kong, she wouldn’t know how to respond. She
treated it as a joke, and replied with a smile.

Having learned that she was in room 130, Liuyuan stopped in front of a
door and said, “Here it is.” The porter unlocked the door. Liusu walked in
and was immediately drawn to the window. The whole room seemed to be a
dark  picture  frame  around  the  big  ocean  painting  there.  Roaring  breakers
spilled onto the curtains, staining their edges blue.

“Put the trunk in front of the wardrobe,” Liuyuan said to the porter.
His voice sounded next to Liusu’s ear, startling her. She turned and saw
that  the  porter  had  gone,  though  the  door  had  not  been  closed.  Liuyuan
leaned  against  the  window  with  one  hand  stretched  along  the  frame,
blocking her line of vision and smiling as he gazed at her. Liusu bowed her
head.

Liuyuan laughed. “Did you realize? Your specialty is bowing the head.”
Liusu raised her head. “What? I don’t understand.”
“Some people are good at talking, or at laughing, or at keeping house,

but you’re good at bowing your head.”

“I’m no good at anything,” said Liusu. “I’m utterly useless.”
“It’s the useless women who are the most formidable.”
Liusu  walked  away  laughing.  “I’m  not  going  to  discuss  this  with  you

anymore. I’m going next door to have a look around.”

“Next door? My room or Mrs. Xu’s room?”
Liusu was startled again. “You’re staying in the next room?”
Liuyuan had already swung the door open for her. “Sorry… my room’s

a mess, no visitors allowed.”

He knocked at room 131, and Mrs. Xu opened the door to let them in.
“Come and some have tea with us. We have a sitting room.” Then she rang
the bell to call for refreshments.

Mr. Xu came out of the bedroom and said, “I telephoned my friend Mr.
Zhu, and he insists on throwing a party tonight to welcome us. He’s invited
us  to  the  Hong  Kong  Hotel.”  He  turned  to  Liuyuan.  “Of  course  you’re
included.”

“My,  you’ve  got  a  lot  of  energy,”  said  Mrs.  Xu.  “After  all  those  days
seasick on the boat, shouldn’t we go to bed early? Let’s not go out tonight.”
“The Hong Kong Hotel has the most old-fashioned ballroom I’ve  ever
seen,” said Liuyuan. “Everything about the place— building, lights, decor,
orchestra—is  very  English  and,  forty  or  fifty  years  ago,  was  very  up-to-
date.  But  nowadays  it’s  not  much  of  a  draw.  There’s  nothing  to  see  there,
except  maybe  the  funny  little  waiters.  Even  on  a  very  hot  day,  they  wear
those northern-style trousers, gathered tight at the ankles.”

“Why?” asked Liusu.
“Chinese flavor!”
Mr. Xu laughed. “Well, since we’re here we might as well go and have a

look. Sorry, but you’ll just have to keep us company!”
“I’m not sure I’m going, so don’t wait for me.”
Liuyuan seemed quite uninterested in going, while Mr. Xu, who was not
in the habit of frequenting ballrooms, was unusually excited, as if he truly
wanted  to  introduce  her  to  his  friends.  Liusu  felt  quite  unsure  about  what
was going on.

But  when  they  got  to  the  Hong  Kong  Hotel  that  night,  the  group  that
had  gathered  to  welcome  them  was  largely  composed  of  old  married
couples. The few single men were all youths in their early twenties. While
Liusu  was  dancing,  Fan  Liuyuan  suddenly  appeared  and  cut  in  on  her
partner.  In  the  lychee-red  light  of  the  ballroom,  she  couldn’t  see  his
darkened face clearly, but she could tell that he was unusually withdrawn.

“Why so quiet?” she teased.
“Everything that can be said to a person’s face, I’ve already said.”
Liusu  chuckled.  “And  just  what  is  it  that  you  sneak  around  and  say

behind a person’s back?”

“There are some kinds of foolishness that you don’t want other people
to  hear,  don’t  even  want  yourself  to  hear.  Even  hearing  yourself  say  it
makes you feel embarrassed. For instance, I love you, I will love you for the
rest of my life.”

Liusu turned away and chided him softly. “Such nonsense!”

“If  I  don’t  say  anything,  you  complain  because  I’m  too  quiet,  but  if  I

talk, you complain that I talk too much.”

“Tell  me,”  said  Liusu,  “why  is  it  that  you  don’t  want  me  out  on  the

dance floor?”

“Most  men  like to  lead  a woman astray, then  make  appeals to  the  bad
woman’s bad conscience, and reform her till she’s good. I don’t go around
making  so  much  work  for  myself.  I  think  the  important  thing,  for  a  good
woman, is steady honesty.”

Liusu  gave  him  a  sideways  glance.  “You  think  you’re  different  from

them? It seems to me you’re just as selfish.”

“Selfish? How?”
To  herself,  she  thought:  “Your  idea  of  the  perfect  woman  is  someone
who  is  pure  and  high-minded  but  still  ready  to  flirt.  The  pure  high-
mindedness  is  for  others,  but  the  flirting  is  for  you.  If  I  were  an  entirely
good woman, you would never have noticed me in the first place!”

She leaned her head to one side and said, “You want me to be good in

front of others, but bad when I’m with you.”

Liuyuan thought for a moment. “I don’t understand.”
Liusu explained again. “You want me to be bad to others, but good only

to you.”

“Now  you’ve  turned  it  around  again!  You’re  just  making  me  more

confused.”

He was silent for a while, then said, “What you’re saying isn’t so.”
Liusu laughed. “Ah, so now you understand.”
“I don’t care if you’re good or bad. I don’t want you to change. It’s not

easy to find a real Chinese girl like you.”

Liusu sighed softly. “I’m old-fashioned, that’s all.”
“Real  Chinese  women  are  the  world’s  most  beautiful  women.  They’re

never out of fashion.”

“But for a modern man like you—”
“You say ‘modern,’ but what you probably mean is Western. It’s true I
am not a real Chinese. It’s just that in the past few years I’ve become a little
more like a Chinese. But you know, a foreigner who’s become Chinese also
becomes  reactionary,  more  reactionary  even  than  an  old-fashioned  scholar
from the dynastic era.”

Liusu  laughed.  “You’re  old-fashioned,  and  I’m  old-fashioned.  And
you’ve  already  said  that  the  Hong  Kong  Hotel  is  the  most  old-fashioned

ballroom ever…”

They both laughed, and just then the music ended. Liuyuan led her back
to  her  seat.  He  told  the  others  that  Miss  Bai  had  a  headache,  and  that  he
would see her home.

This  was  entirely  unexpected.  Liusu  had  no  time  to  think,  though  she
knew that she didn’t want to cross him. They didn’t know each other well
enough  to  argue  openly.  So  she  let  him  help  her  with  her  coat,  made  her
apologies all around, and went out with him.

Directly  in  their  path  a  group  of  Western  gentlemen  stood  clustered
around  a  woman,  like  stars  around  the  moon.  Liusu  first  noticed  the
woman’s long black hair; it had been done up in two long braids and then
coiled on top of her head. She was Indian, and even in Western apparel, her
aura  was  intensely  Oriental.  She  was  wearing  a  dark,  sheer  cape  over  a
long, close-fitting gown, goldfish-red, that covered even her hands, leaving
only  her  pearly  fingernails  exposed.  The  plunging  neckline  of  her  dress
formed a narrow “V” all the way to her waist; it was the latest fashion from
Paris, called ligne du del. Her complexion was rich and tawny, like a gold-
plated Buddha, but a devil lurked in her dark eyes. Her nose was classically
straight, though a bit too sharp and thin. Her mouth was small, with lips so
pink and full they looked swollen.

Liuyuan stopped and made a slight bow in her direction. Liusu looked at
the woman, and the hauteur with which the woman returned her gaze put a
thousand miles between them.

Liuyuan  introduced  them.  “This  is  Miss  Bai.  This  is  Princess

Saheiyini.”

Liusu  couldn’t  help  but  be  impressed.  Saheiyini  reached  out  and
touched Liusu’s hand with her fingertips. “Is Miss Bai from Shanghai?” she
asked  Liuyuan,  who  nodded.  “She  doesn’t  seem  like  someone  from
Shanghai,” she said, with a smile.

“Then what does she seem like?” Liuyuan asked.
Saheiyini placed a finger on one cheek and thought for a moment. Then
she  brought  her  hands  together,  fingers  pointing  upward,  as  if  she  had
something to  say but  words  simply  failed  her. She laughed,  shrugging  her
shoulders, and walked into the ballroom. Liuyuan headed toward the door
again, taking Liusu with him. Liusu couldn’t understand much English, but
she  had  followed  their  expressions.  Now  she  said,  with  a  smile,  “I  am  a
country bumpkin.”

“As I said, you are a real Chinese. That of course is different from her

notion of a Shanghainese.”

They got in a taxi, and Liuyuan said, “Don’t be bothered by the airs she
puts on. She struts around saying that she’s the daughter of Prince Krishna
Karumpa, but that her mother lost the prince’s favor and was told to commit
suicide, and she too had to flee. Now she wanders in exile, unable to return.
And in fact, it is true that she can’t go back to her native land—but nothing
else in her story has been proven.”
“Has she been to Shanghai?”
“She’s very well-known in Shanghai. She came to Hong Kong with an
Englishman.  Did  you  see  that  old  man  standing  behind  her?  He’s  the  one
who’s keeping her these days.”

“You  men  are  always  like  this.  When  you’re  talking  to  her,  you  can’t
think  of  enough  polite  things  to  say,  but  behind  her  back  you  say  she’s
worthless. I can just imagine what you say to others about me, the daughter
of a poor old Qing official, even lower ranking than she is!”

Liuyuan  laughed.  “Who  would  dare  speak  of  you  two  in  the  same

breath?”

Pursing  her  lips,  Liusu  said,  “Maybe  that’s  because  her  name  is  too

long. Can’t get it all out in one breath.”

“You  needn’t  worry.  I  promise  to  treat  you  the  way  you  should  be

treated.”

Liusu  smoothed  her  face  and  murmured  a  half-persuaded  “Really?”  to
herself,  as  she  leaned  against  the  car  window.  His  tone  did  not  seem
sarcastic,  and  she  had  noticed  that  when  the  two  of  them  were  alone
together, he was a perfect gentleman. For reasons that she failed to fathom,
he  was  a  model  of  self-restraint  when  no  one  else  was  around  to  see,  but
when  people  were  watching,  he  liked  to  take  liberties.  Was  this  just  a
peculiarity of his? Or was he up to something? She couldn’t quite figure it
out.

When  they  reached  Repulse  Bay,  he  helped  her  out  of  the  taxi,  then
pointed to the dense copse alongside the road. “Do you see that tree? It’s a
southern variety. The English call it ‘flame of the forest.’ ”

“Is it red?” asked Liusu.
“Red, red, red!”
In the  darkness,  Liusu  couldn’t see the  red, but  she knew  instinctively
that  it  was  the  reddest  red,  red  beyond  belief.  Great  masses  of  little  red

flowers, nestled in a huge tree that reached up to the sky, a riotous welter
burning all the way up, staining the indigo sky with red. Leaning her head
back, she gazed upward.

“The Cantonese call it the ‘shadow tree,’ ” said Liuyuan. “Look at this

leaf.”

The leaf was as light as a fern; when a slight breeze made the delicate
silhouette flutter, they seemed to hear a faint, almost melodic sound, like the
tinkling of wind chimes in the eaves.

“Let’s walk over there a bit,” said Liuyuan.
Liusu didn’t say anything. But as he walked, she slowly followed. After
all, it was still early, and lots of people go out for walks on a road—it would
be  all  right.  A  short  distance  past  the  Repulse  Bay  Hotel,  an  overhead
bridge  arched  through  the  air.  On  the  far  side  of  the  bridge  there  was  a
mountain  slope;  on  the  near  side,  a  gray  brick  retaining  wall.  Liuyuan
leaned  against  the  wall,  and  Liusu  leaned  too,  looking  upward  at  its  great
height, the wall so high that the upper edge faded out of sight. The wall was
cool  and  rough,  the  color  of  death.  Pressed  against  that  wall,  her  face
bloomed with the opposite hues: red lips, shining eyes—a face of flesh and
blood, alive with thought and feeling.

“I don’t know why,” said Liuyuan, looking at her, “but this wall makes
me  think  of  the  old  sayings  about  the  end  of  the  world.  Someday,  when
human  civilization  has  been  completely  destroyed,  when  everything  is
burned,  burst,  utterly  collapsed  and  ruined,  maybe  this  wall  will  still  be
here. If, at that time, we can meet at this wall, then maybe, Liusu, you will
honestly care about me, and I will honestly care about you.”

“So  you  admit  you  like  to  play  games,”  Liusu  sniffed  coyly.  “That
doesn’t  mean  you  can  drag  me  along  too!  When  have  you  caught  me
lying?”

“Fair  enough,”  Liuyuan  said  with  a  snicker.  “There’s  no  one  more

openhearted than you.”

“That’s enough… stop patronizing me.”
Liuyuan was silent for a long time. Then he sighed.
“Something you’re unhappy about?” Liusu asked.
“Lots.”
“If  someone  as  free  as  you  are  thinks  life  is  unfair,  then  someone  like

me ought to just go and hang herself.”

“I know you’re not happy,” said Liuyuan. “You’ve certainly seen more
than enough of all these awful people, and awful things that are everywhere
around us. But if you were seeing them for the first time, it would be even
harder to bear, even harder to get used to. That’s what it’s been like for me.
When I arrived  in  China  I  was  already  twenty-four.  I  had  such  dreams  of
my homeland. You can imagine how disappointed I was. I couldn’t bear the
shock, and I started slipping downward. If… if you had known me before,
then maybe you could forgive me for the way I am now.”

Liusu tried to imagine what it would be like to see her Fourth Sister-in-
law for the first time. Then she burst out: “That would still be better. When
you see them for  the  first  time,  then  no matter how awful, no matter how
dirty they are, they—or it—is still outside of you. But if you live in it for a
long time, how can you tell how much of it is them, and how much of it is
you?”

Liuyuan  fell  silent.  After  a  long  pause  he  said,  “Maybe  you  are  right.
Maybe  what  I’m  saying  is  just  an  excuse,  and  I’m  only  fooling  myself.”
Then  he  laughed  suddenly.  “Actually,  I  don’t  need  any  excuses!  I  like  to
have a good time—and I have plenty of money, plenty of time—do I need
any other reason?”

He  thought  it  over,  and  again  grew  frustrated.  He  said  to  her,  “I  don’t
understand  myself—but  I  want  you  to  understand  me!  I  want  you  to
understand me!” He spoke like this, and yet in his heart he’d already given
up hope. Still, stubbornly, plaintively he went on: “I want you to understand
me!”

Liusu was willing to try. She was willing to try anything, within limits.
She leaned her head in his direction, and answered softly, “I do understand.
I do.” But while comforting him, she suddenly thought of her moonlit face.
That  delicate  profile,  the  eyes,  the  brow—beautiful  beyond  reason;  misty,
ethereal. Slowly she bowed her head.

Liuyuan began chuckling. “That’s right, don’t forget,” he said, in a new
tone of voice. “Your specialty is bowing the head. But there are those who
say that only teenage girls can bow the head well. If you’re good at it, then
it becomes a habit. And when you’ve bowed the head for many years, you
might end up with a wrinkled neck.”

Liusu turned away, but not without raising her hand to her neck. “Don’t
worry,”  laughed  Liuyuan,  “of  course  you  don’t  have  any  wrinkles.  When

you get back to your room, when no one else is around, you can unbutton
your collar and check.”

Liusu didn’t reply. She just turned and started walking. Liuyuan caught
up  to  her.  “I’ll  tell  you  why  you’ll  keep  your  good  looks.  Saheiyini  once
said  she  didn’t  dare  get  married  because  Indian  women,  once  they  start
relaxing at home, sitting around all day, just get fat. I told her that Chinese
women, when they sit around, aren’t even good at fattening up—since even
that  takes  some  kind  of  effort.  So  it  turns  out  that  laziness  has  its
advantages!”

Liusu utterly ignored him, and from then on he held himself in check,
making conversation and small jokes all the way back. She did not soften
until  they’d  arrived  at  the  hotel.  Quietly  they  returned  to  their  respective
rooms.

Liusu assessed the situation. It turned out that what Liuyuan cared about
was  spiritual  love.  She  approved  entirely,  because  spiritual  love  always
leads to marriage, while physical love tends to reach a certain level and then
stop, leaving little hope of marriage. There was just one small problem with
spiritual  love:  while  courting,  the  man  always  says  things  that  the  woman
doesn’t  understand.  Not  that  it  matters  all  that  much.  In  the  end  the
marriage  goes  through  anyway,  and  then  you  buy  a  house,  arrange  the
furniture,  hire  some  servants—and  in  such  matters  the  woman  is  much
more  expert  than  the  man.  Given  all  that,  Liusu  felt  that  the  little
misunderstanding of that evening was not anything to worry about.

The  next  morning  there  was  not  a  peep  from  Mrs.  Xu’s  room,  which
meant she must be sleeping in. Liusu remembered that Mrs. Xu had told her
that in this hotel there was an extra charge for room delivery, not to mention
the tip, so she decided to go to the dining room and save a bit of expense.
She  washed  and  dressed,  and  walked  out  the  door.  There  was  a  porter
waiting  outside.  Seeing  her,  he  immediately  knocked  at  Liuyuan’s  door.
Liuyuan appeared at once. “Let’s have breakfast together,” he smiled.

“Mr. and Mrs. Xu haven’t raised the bed curtain yet?” he asked, as they

walked together.

“They must be tuckered out from their good time last night!” returned

Liusu. “I didn’t hear them come in. It must have been close to dawn.”

They took a table on the veranda outside the dining room. Beyond the
stone  railing  stood  an  enormous  palm  tree,  its  feathery  fronds  trembling

slightly in the sun, like a fountain of light. Under the tree was a pool with
its own fountain, much less magnificent.

“What are Mr. and Mrs. Xu going to do today?” asked Liuyuan.
“I think they’re going to look at houses.”
“Let  them  look  at  houses—we’ll  go  have  our  own  fun.  Would  you

rather go to the beach or go have a look at the city?”

Liusu had, on the previous afternoon, surveyed the beach scene through
binoculars. Strapping youths and lovely girls. Very exciting but a little too
rowdy. Preferring to err on the side of caution, she suggested that they go
into town. So they caught one of the buses provided by the hotel and went
into the city center.

Liuyuan  took  her  to  the  Great  China  to  eat.  Liusu  heard  the  waiters
speaking  Shanghainese,  filling  the  air  with  her  native  tongue.  “Is  this  a
Shanghai restaurant?” she asked with some surprise.
“Don’t you feel homesick?” Liuyuan laughed.
“But…  coming  to  Hong  Kong  so  that  we  can  eat  Shanghai  cuisine

seems a bit silly.”

“I do a lot of silly things when I’m with you. For instance, take a tram

around in circles, go to a movie I’ve seen two times already—”

“Because you’ve caught silliness from me, right?”
“Take it to mean whatever you please.”
When they had finished eating, Liuyuan raised his glass and drained the

remaining tea, then lifted the glass high and stared at it.

“If there’s something worth seeing, let me look too,” Liusu said.
“Hold it up to the light,” said Liuyuan. “The scene inside reminds me of

the forests of Malaya.”

When  the  glass  was  tilted,  a  hatching  of  green  tea  leaves  stuck  to  one
side;  held  up  to  the  light,  they  became  a  waving  plantain  tree,  while  the
tangled  swirl  of  tea  leaves  clumped  at  the  bottom  looked  like  knee-high
grass  and  undergrowth.  Liusu  peered  up  at  the  glass,  and  Liuyuan  leaned
over, pointing all this out. Through the dusky green glass, Liusu suddenly
saw  him watching  her with  eyes that seemed to  laugh,  yet  didn’t.  She put
the glass down and smiled.

“I’ll take you to Malaya,” Liuyuan said.
“What for?”
“To go back to nature.” He thought for a moment. “But there’s just one
problem—I can’t imagine you running through the forest in a cheongsam.

But neither can I imagine you not wearing a cheongsam.”

Liusu’s face stiffened. “Stop talking nonsense.”
“But  I’m  serious.  The  first  time  I  saw  you,  you  were  wearing  one  of
those  trendy  tunics,  and  I  thought  you  shouldn’t  bare  your  arms  like  that.
But  Western-style  clothes  aren’t  right  for  you  either.  A  Manchu-style
cheongsam might suit you better, if its lines weren’t so severe.”

“In the end, if a person is ugly, then no matter how she dresses it still

won’t look right!”

Liuyuan  laughed.  “You  keep  twisting  my  words!  What  I  mean  is  that
you’re like someone from another world. You have all these little gestures,
and a romantic aura, very much like a Peking opera singer.”

Liusu  raised  her  eyebrows.  “An  opera  singer—indeed!”  she  said
sarcastically.  “But  of  course  it  takes  more  than  one  to  put  on  a  show,  and
I’ve been forced into it. A person acts clever with me, and if I don’t do the
same, he takes me for a fool and insults me!”

When Liuyuan heard this, he was rather crestfallen. He raised the empty
glass, tried to drink from it, then put it down again and sighed. “Right,” he
said.  “My  fault.  I’m  used  to  throwing  out  lines  because  everyone  throws
lines at me. But to you I have said a few sincere things, and you can’t tell
the difference. “

“I’m not the worm in your innards—I can’t read your mind.”
“Right.  My  fault.  But  I  really  have  thought  up  a  great  many  schemes
because  of  you.  When  I  first  met  you  in  Shanghai,  I  thought  that  if  you
could  get  away  from  your  family,  maybe  you  could  be  more  natural.  So  I
waited and waited till you came to Hong Kong… and now, I want to take
you  to  Malaya,  to  the  forest  with  its  primitive  peoples…”  He  laughed  at
himself, his voice hoarse and dry, and called for the check. By the time they
had  paid,  he  had  already  recovered  his  good  spirits;  he  resumed  his
excessively courteous, unflappably chivalrous manner.

Every  day  he  took  her  out,  and  they  did  everything  there  was  to  do…
movies, Cantonese opera, casinos, the Gloucester Hotel, the Cecil Hotel, the
Bluebird Coffee Bar, Indian fabric shops, Szechuan food in Kowloon… and
they often went for walks, even very late at night. She could hardly believe
it, but he rarely so much as touched her hand. She was continually on edge,
fearing  that  he  would  suddenly  drop  the  pretense  and  launch  a  surprise
attack. But day after day he remained a gentleman; it was like facing a great
enemy who stood perfectly still. At first this threw her entirely off balance,

like missing a step when going down a flight of stairs; her heart pulsated,
throbbing irregularly. After a while, though, she got used to it.

Then  something  happened  out  on  the  beach.  By  this  time  Liusu  knew
Liuyuan a little better; she didn’t think a beach outing would be a problem.
So they whiled away a whole morning there. They even sat together on the
sand, though facing opposite directions. Suddenly Liusu squealed: mosquito
bite, she said.

“It’s not a mosquito,” said Liuyuan. “It’s a little insect called a sand fly.

Its bite leaves a red mark, just like a mole on your skin.”
“There’s too much sun,” Liusu complained again.
“Let’s sit out a bit longer, and then we can go into one of those cabanas.

I’ve already got one rented.”

The  thirsty  sun  sucked  in  the  seawater,  gargling  and  spitting  in  steady
rhythm. It lapped up all the moisture in their bodies, so that they grew light
and empty, like dry, golden leaves. Liusu started to feel that strange, light-
headed happiness, but then she had to cry, “Ouch! Mosquito!” She twisted
around and slapped her own bare back.

“That’s  the  hard  way,”  said  Liuyuan.  “Here,  I’ll  slap  for  you,  and  you

slap for me.”

And Liusu did watch over his back, slapping at the sand flies whenever
she saw one. “Aiiya, he got away!” And Liuyuan watched her back for her.
They hit and slapped at each other, then broke into laughter. Suddenly Liusu
took  offense,  stood  up,  and  walked  back  toward  the  hotel.  This  time
Liuyuan  didn’t  follow  her.  When  she  had  reached  the  trees  and  the  stone
path that ran between two rush-mat cabanas, Liusu stopped, shook the sand
out of her little skirt, and looked back. Liuyuan was still there, stretched out
with his arms folded under his head, a man daydreaming in the sun, turning
into a golden leaf again. Liusu went into the hotel, got some binoculars, and
looked  from her window. Now  a woman reclined  next  to  him, a big  braid
coiled  on  top  of  her  head.  Saheiyini  could  be  burned  to  ashes,  and  Liusu
would still know her.

From that day on, Liuyuan spent all his time with Saheiyini; apparently
he had decided to let Liusu cool her heels for a while. Liusu had been going
out every day; now, with nothing to do and no good explanation to make to
Mrs. Xu, she thought it best to come down with a cold and keep to her room
for  a  few  days.  Fortunately,  the  gods  were  very  considerate;  they  sent  a
nice, kind rain. That was one more excuse, leaving her free not to go out.

One afternoon, Liusu came back to the hotel with her umbrella, having
gone  for  a  walk  in  the  hotel  garden.  It  was  getting  dark,  and  she  guessed
that Mr. and Mrs. Xu would soon return from house hunting, so she sat on
the veranda waiting for them. She opened her shiny oil-paper umbrella and
set it out on the railing, blocking her face from view. The umbrella was pink
and  painted  with  malachite-green  lotus  leaves,  and  the  raindrops  slipped
along its ribs. It was raining hard. Car tires scuffed by in the rain, and then a
laughing  group  of  men  and  women  scrambled  up  to  the  hotel,  led  by  Fan
Liuyuan.  Saheiyini  was  leaning  on  his  arm,  but  she  was  a  mess,  her  bare
legs  flecked with  mud.  She took  off  her big  straw  hat,  splashing  water  on
the ground. Catching sight of Liusu’s umbrella, Liuyuan said a few words
to Saheiyini at the foot of the stairs, and Saheiyini went on up by herself.
Liuyuan came over, and pulled out a handkerchief to wipe the rain from his
face  and  clothes.  Liusu  was  forced  to  offer  a  brief  greeting.  Liuyuan  sat
down. “I heard you haven’t been feeling well.”

“Just a summer cold.”
“This  weather  is  so  muggy.  We’ve  just  gone  out  on  that  Englishman’s

yacht to have a picnic, sailed out to Tsing Yi Island.”

So  Liusu  asked  him  about  the  scenery  on  Tsing  Yi  Island.  Just  then,
Saheiyini returned in an Indian outfit, with a gosling-yellow wrap that hung
down  to  the  ground  and  was  embossed  all  over  with  two-inch-wide  silver
flowers. She too sat down by the railing, at a table far away, one arm draped
casually over the back of her chair, silver polish glinting on her fingernails.

“Why don’t you go over?” Liusu said to Liuyuan with a smile.
“There’s someone with a controlling interest.”
“How can that Englishman tell her what to do?”
“He can’t control her, but you can control me.”
Liusu puckered her lips. “Oooh! I could be the governor of Hong Kong
or the local city god, with everyone here under me, and still you wouldn’t
be under my control!”

Liuyuan shook his head. “A woman who doesn’t get jealous is not quite

right in the head.”

Liusu let out a laugh. There was a short silence. “Why are you watching

me?” she asked.

“I’m trying to see if you’ll be nice to me from now on.”
“Whether I’m nice to you or not, what difference could it make to you?”

Liuyuan  clapped  his  hands  together.  “Ah!  That’s  more  like  it!  Now

there’s just a bit of venom in her voice!”

Liusu  had  to  laugh.  “I’ve  never  seen  anyone  like  you,  so  intent  on

making people jealous!”

After that, they became friendly again and went to dinner together. On
the surface Liusu seemed to have warmed to him again, but deep down she
was depressed. Stirring up her jealousy was his way of taunting her so that
she’d run into his arms of her own accord. But she’d kept him at a distance
for  so  long  now;  if  she  softened  toward  him  at  this  point,  she’d  be
sacrificing herself for nothing. He wouldn’t really feel obligated; he’d just
think  that  she’d  fallen  for  a  trick.  She  was  dreaming  if  she  thought  he’d
marry her after that… Clearly, he wanted her, but he didn’t want to marry
her. Since her family, poor as they were, was a respectable family, and since
he  and  they  all  moved  in  the  same  circle,  he  was  worried  about  getting  a
reputation as a seducer. That was why he put on that open and aboveboard
manner. Now she knew that his innocence was fake. He didn’t want to be
held  responsible.  If  he  abandoned  her,  no  one  would  listen  to  her  side  of
things.

When Liusu had thought all this through, she couldn’t help grinding her
teeth in anger. Outwardly, she went along with Liuyuan as usual. Mrs. Xu
had already rented a house in Happy Valley and planned to move in soon.
Liusu  would  have  liked  to  go  with  them,  but  since  she  had  troubled  them
for  more  than  a  month,  the  idea  of  being  their  long-term  guest  was  quite
embarrassing. Staying at the hotel was also out of the question. She suffered
the agony of indecision, not knowing whether to advance or retreat.

Then one night, after tossing and turning in bed for hours before finally
drifting  off,  the  telephone  suddenly  rang.  It  was  Liuyuan’s  voice.  “I  love
you,” he said. And hung up. Liusu held the receiver in her hand and stared
into  space,  her  heart  pounding.  Softly  she  put  it  back  in  the  cradle.  No
sooner  had  she  hung  up  than  it  rang  again.  Again  she  raised  the  receiver.
Liuyuan said, “I forgot to ask—do you love me?”

Liusu  coughed.  When  at  last  she  spoke  her  throat  was  still  dry  and
raspy. “You must have known long ago,” she said in a low voice. “Why else
did I come to Hong Kong?”

Liuyuan sighed. “I knew, but even with the truth staring me in the face,

I still don’t want to believe it. Liusu, you don’t love me.”

“Why do you say that?”

Liuyuan didn’t say anything. Then, after a long while, he said “In The

Book of Songs there’s a verse—”

“I don’t understand that sort of thing,” Liusu cut in.
“I  know  you  don’t  understand,”  Liuyuan  said  impatiently.  “If  you

understood, I wouldn’t need to explain! So listen:

“Facing life, death, distance
Here is my promise to thee—
I take thy hand in mine:
We will grow old together.
“My Chinese isn’t very good, and I don’t know if I’ve got it right, but I
think  this  is  a  very  mournful  poem  which  says  that  life  and  death  and
parting are enormous things, well beyond human control. Compared to the
great forces in the world, we people are so very, very small. But still we say
‘I  will  stay  with  you  forever,  we  will  never,  in  this  lifetime,  leave  each
other’—as if we really could decide these things!”

Liusu  was  silent  for  a  while,  but  finally  she  burst  out:  “Why  not  go
ahead and just say, flat out, that you don’t want to marry me, and leave it at
that! Why beat around the bush, with all this talk of not being able to decide
things? Even a conservative person like me can say ‘First marriage for the
family, second marriage for oneself.’ If someone as free and unburdened as
you are can’t decide for himself, then who can decide for you?”

“You  don’t  love  me—is  that  something  you  can  simply  decide  for

yourself?” Liuyuan said coldly.

“If you really love me, why worry if I do?”
“I’m not such a fool that I’ll pay to marry someone who has no feelings
for  me,  just  so  that  she  can  tell  me  what  to  do!  That’s  simply  too  unfair.
And it’s unfair to you, too. Well, maybe you don’t care. Basically, you think
that marriage is long-term prostitution—”

Liusu didn’t wait for him to finish. She slammed the receiver down, her
whole face crimson with rage. How dare he talk to her like this? How dare
he!  She  sat  on  the  bed,  the  feverish  darkness  wrapped  around  her  like  a
purple wool rug. Her body was covered with sweat and she itched all over;
her hair, stuck to her neck and back, irritated her terribly. She pressed her
hands against her cheeks: her palms were ice-cold.

The  phone  rang  again.  She  didn’t  answer,  just  let  it  ring.  “Brring…
Brring…” The sound was especially ear-piercing in that quiet room, in the
quiet hotel, on quiet Repulse Bay. Liusu suddenly realized that she couldn’t

wake  up  the  entire  Repulse  Bay  Hotel.  Starting,  of  course,  with  Mrs.  Xu
next door… Trembling with fear, she picked up the receiver and laid it on
the bedsheet. But the night was so still that even from a distance she could
hear Liuyuan’s perfectly calm voice saying “Liusu, from your window, can
you see the moon?”

She didn’t know why, but suddenly she was sobbing. The moon shone
bright and blurry through her tears, silver, with a slightly greenish tint. “In
my window,” said Liuyuan, “there is a flowering vine that blocks half the
view. Maybe it’s a rose. Or maybe not.” He didn’t say anything more, but
the  phone  stayed  off  the  hook.  After  a  very  long  while,  Liusu  began  to
wonder if he had dozed off, but finally there was a gentle little click. Her
hand still shaking, Liusu took the receiver from where it lay on the bed and
put  it  back  in  the  cradle.  She  feared  he  would  call  a  fourth  time,  but  he
didn’t.  It  was  all  a  dream—the  more  she  thought  about  it,  the  more  it
seemed like a dream.

The next day, she didn’t dare ask him about it because he would be sure
to  tease  her—”Dreams  are  just  your  heart’s  desire.”  Was  she  really  so
infatuated with him, that even in her sleep she dreamed of him calling her to
say, “I love you”? There was no change in his attitude. They went out for
the day, just as usual. Liusu suddenly noticed that there were lots of people
who took them for husband and wife—the porters, the wives and old ladies
that  she  chatted  with  in  the  hotel—  and  they  could  hardly  be  blamed  for
this. She and Liuyuan had rooms right next to each other, they came in and
went  out  side  by  side,  they  took  late-night  walks  on  the  beach,  totally
unconcerned about what other people might think. A nanny wheeled a baby
carriage  by,  nodded  to  Liusu,  and  greeted  her  as  “Mrs.  Fan.”  Liusu  froze,
unable  to  either  smile  or  not  smile.  She  could  only  look  at  Liuyuan  from
under her brows and say, in a low voice, “I wonder what they think!”

“Don’t worry about those who call you ‘Mrs. Fan.’ But those who call

you ‘Miss Bai’—what must they think?”

The  color  drained  from  Liusu’s  face.  Liuyuan  stroked  his  chin  and

laughed. “Why content yourself with appearances only?”

Liusu  stared  at  him  in  shock,  suddenly  seeing  how  wicked  this  man
was. Whenever they were in public, he made sure to give the impression of
affectionate intimacy, so that now she had no way to prove that they had not
slept together. She was riding the tiger now, no way to go home, no way to
rejoin her family; she had no option except to become his mistress. But if

she relented  at  this point, all her efforts would  have been wasted, with  no
hope  of  recovery.  She  wouldn’t  do  it!  Even  if  she  was  trapped  by
appearances, he’d taken advantage of her in name only. The real truth was
that  he  had  not  gotten  her.  And  since  he  hadn’t,  he  might  come  back
someday, ready to make peace on better terms.

She made up her mind, and told Liuyuan that she wanted to go back to
Shanghai. Liuyuan didn’t try to keep her; instead he volunteered to see her
home.  “Oh,  that’s  not  necessary,”  said  Liusu.  “Aren’t  you  going  to
Singapore?”

“I’ve  already put  it off  this long,  delaying  a little longer  won’t matter.

I’ve got things to do in Shanghai too.”

Liusu  knew  that  he  was  still  playing  the  same  hand,  afraid  that  others
wouldn’t talk about them enough. The more that people had to talk about,
the less she’d be able to defend herself, and Shanghai would become a very
uncomfortable  place  for  her.  But  Liusu  reasoned  that  even  if  he  didn’t  go
back with her, she wouldn’t be able to keep things from her family. Having
braved damnation thus far, she might as well let him see her home.

When Mrs. Xu saw that the pair that had seemed to be getting along so
well suddenly wanted to break things off, she was surprised, to say the least.
She asked each of them, and they both made excuses for the other, but of
course Mrs. Xu didn’t believe a word they said.

On the ship, they had many chances to be together, but if Liuyuan could
resist the moon in Repulse Bay, he could resist the moon on shipboard. He
didn’t say a single concrete thing to her. He seemed nonchalant, but Liusu
could tell that it was the nonchalance of a man who is pleased with himself
—he was sure she couldn’t escape him now, sure that he had her in the palm
of his hand.

When they got to Shanghai, he took her to her house in a taxi, without
getting out himself. The Bai household had heard the news long before, and
were entirely aware that Young Sixth Lady and Fan Liuyuan had cohabited
in Hong Kong. Going off with a man for a whole month, then waltzing back
as  if  nothing  were  the  matter—clearly  she  meant  to  disgrace  the  entire
family.

Liusu  had  taken  up  with  Fan  Liuyuan—for  his  money,  of  course.  If
she’d  landed  the  money,  she  wouldn’t  have  crept  back  so  very  quietly;  it
was  clear  that  she  hadn’t  gotten  anything  from  him.  Basically,  a  woman
who  was  tricked  by  a  man  deserved  to  die,  while  a  woman  who  tricked  a

man was a whore. If a woman tried to trick a man but failed and then was
tricked  by  him,  that  was  whoredom  twice  over.  Kill  her  and  you’d  only
dirty the knife.

Ordinarily, when anyone in the Bai family made a mistake the size of a
sesame  seed  it  got  blown  all  out  of  proportion.  Now  that  they  had
uncovered  an  enormous,  truly  sensational  crime,  they  stammered  with
overexcitement,  unable  for  a  moment  to  get  a  word  out.  Their  first  move,
since  they  agreed  that “dirty  laundry  shouldn’t be aired in  public,”  was  to
go  around  to  all  their  friends  and  relatives  and  make  them  swear  to  keep
their  mouths  shut.  Then  they  went  back  around  to  the  same  friends  and
relatives,  and  sounded  them  out,  one  by  one.  Did  they  know?  If  so,  how
much? In the end they decided it couldn’t be kept quiet, so they announced
it cheerfully and openly, slapping  their  thighs, moaning and sighing about
the  whole  thing.  Orchestrating  all  this  took  up  the  entire  autumn,  and  left
them no time to do anything definite about Liusu herself.

Liusu  knew  very  well  that  returning  like  this  would  make  things  even
worse than they’d been before. The ties of affection and loyalty between her
and  this  family  had  been  severed  long  ago.  Of  course  she  considered
looking for a job, anything to earn a bowl of rice. No matter how rough it
was, it would still be better than living with a hostile family. But if she took
some  menial  job,  she  would  lose  her  social  status.  Even  though  status
wasn’t something you could eat, losing it would be a pity. And she had not
yet  given  up  all  hope  concerning  Fan  Liuyuan.  She  couldn’t  sell  herself
cheaply now, or else he’d have a perfect excuse for refusing to marry her.
So she just had to hang on a little while longer.

Finally,  at  the  end  of  November,  Fan  Liuyuan  sent  a  telegram  from
Hong Kong. Everyone in the family had eyeballed the telegram before Old
Mrs. Bai called Liusu, and put it in her hand. The message was terse: “PLS
COME HK.  PASSAGE  BOOKED VIA THOMAS COOK.” Old Mrs.  Bai
gave a long sigh. “Since he’s sent for you, you should go!”

Was she worth so little? Tears dropped from her eyes. Crying made her
lose all her self-control; she found she could not bear it anymore. Already
she’d aged two years in one autumn—she couldn’t afford to grow old! So
for the second time she left home and went to Hong Kong. This time, she
felt  none  of  her  earlier  eagerness  for  adventure.  She  had  lost.  Of  course,
everyone  likes  to  be  vanquished,  but  only  within  bounds.  To  have  been
vanquished solely by Fan Liuyuan’s charms, that was one thing. But mixed

with that was the pressure from her family— the most painful factor in her
defeat.

Fan  Liuyuan  was  waiting  for  her  at  the  dock  in  a  light,  drizzling  rain.
He said that her green rain slicker looked like a bottle. “A medicine bottle,”
he explained. She thought he was teasing her because she’d grown so frail,
but then he whispered into her ear, “You’re just the medicine I need.” She
blushed, averting her eyes.

He had reserved her old room for her. By the time they got to the hotel,
it was already two in the morning. In the bathroom, getting ready for bed,
she turned off the light. Then she remembered that the bedroom light switch
was by the bed. Blundering around in the dark, she stepped on a shoe and
almost fell. She cursed herself for being so careless, leaving her shoes lying
around.  There  was  a  laugh  from  the  bed:  “Don’t  be  frightened!  It’s  my
shoe!”

Liusu stopped. “What are you doing here?”
“I  always  wanted  to  see  the  moon  from  your  window.  You  can  see  it

much better from this room than from the room next door.”

So  he  had  phoned  her  that  night—it  wasn’t  a  dream!  He  did  love  her.
What  a  cruel  and  spiteful  man!  He  loved  her,  and  still  he  treated  her  like
this!  Her  heart  went  cold.  Turning  away,  she  walked  over  to  the  dressing
table. The late-November crescent moon was a mere hook of white; its pale
light made the window look like a pane of ice. But moonbeams reached the
sea and were reflected from the water through the window and then into the
mirror,  so  that  even  though  the  beams  were  faint,  they  made  the  mirror
glow. Liusu slowly stripped off her hairnet, mussing her hair; the hairpins
came loose and fell clattering to the floor. She pulled the hairnet on again,
holding  the  ties  in  her  mouth  between  tightly  pinched  lips.  She  frowned,
crouched down, and, one by one, picked up the hairpins.

By  then,  Liuyuan  had walked over behind  her in  his  bare  feet. He  put
one  hand  on  her  head,  turned  her  face  toward  his,  and  kissed  her  mouth.
The hairnet slipped off her head. This was the first time he had kissed her,
but  it  didn’t  feel  like  the  first  time  to  either  of  them—they  had  both
imagined  it  so  many  times.  They’d  had  many  opportunities—the  right
place,  the  right  moment—he’d  thought  of  it;  she  had  worried  it  might
happen. But they were both such clever people, always planning carefully,
that  they’d  never  dared  to  risk  it.  Suddenly  it  was  reality,  and  they  were
both dazed. Liusu’s head was spinning. She fell back against the mirror, her

back  tightly  pressed  to  its  icy  surface.  His  mouth  did  not  leave  hers.  He
pushed  her  into  the  mirror  and  they  seemed  to  fall  into  it,  into  another
shadowy  world—freezing  cold,  searing  hot,  flame  of  the  forest  flowers
burning them all over.

The next day, he told her he was going to England in a week. She asked
him to take her with him, but he said it wasn’t possible. He offered to rent a
house for her in Hong Kong so she could wait for his return, which would
be  in  about  a  year.  If  she’d  rather  live  with  her  family  in  Shanghai,  that
would be fine too.

Of course she wasn’t willing to go back to Shanghai. The more distance
she  could  put  between  those  people  and  herself,  the  better.  Living  on  her
own in Hong Kong would be lonely, but she could bear that. The problem
was  whether  anything  would  change  after  he’d  returned—and  that
depended entirely on him. How could a week’s love hold his heart? But, on
the other hand, maybe it was to her advantage: Liuyuan was not a man of
stable affections, and meeting and parting so quickly as this meant he had
no  time  to  grow  tired  of  her.  One  short  week…  always  more  memorable
than a year. Then again, even if he did come back with a heart full of warm
memories, wanting her again, she might have changed by then! A woman
near thirty can be unusually attractive, but she can also grow haggard in a
moment.  In  the  end,  trying  to  hold  on  to  a  man  without  the  surety  of
marriage  is  a  difficult,  painful,  tiring  business,  well  nigh  impossible.  But
what did it matter, anyway? She had to admit that Liuyuan was delightful,
and he really made the sparks fly, but what she wanted from him was, after
all, financial security. And on that point, she knew she could rest assured.

They took a house on Babington Road, up on a mountain slope. When
the  rooms  had  been  painted,  they  hired  a  Cantonese  maid  called  Ah  Li.
They  only  managed  to  set  up  the  basic  furnishings  before  Liuyuan  had  to
leave. Liusu could take her time with the rest. There wasn’t any food in the
house,  so  on  the  winter  evening  when  she  saw  him  off  at  the  pier,  they
grabbed some sandwiches in the ship’s dining hall. Feeling dejected, Liusu
had a few drinks and stood in the roar of the sea wind; by the time she got
home, she was rather drunk.

When she came in, Ah Li was in the kitchen heating water so she could
wash  her  child’s  feet.  Liusu  went  through  the  whole  house,  turning  on  all
the  lights.  The  green  paint  on  the  sitting  room  door  and  window  was  still
wet.  She  touched  it  with  her  index  finger,  then  pressed  her  sticky  finger

against the wall, leaving a green mark each time. Why not? Was it against
the law? This was her house! Laughing, she put a fresh green handprint on
the dandelion white of the plaster wall.

She sashayed into the next room. Empty rooms, one after another—pure
empty space. She felt that she could fly up to the ceiling. Walking around
on those big empty floors was like being on the smooth, dust-free ceiling.
The room was too empty, she had to fill it with light. But the light was too
dim. She’d have to remember to put in brighter bulbs tomorrow.

She went up the stairs. Emptiness was good—she needed absolute peace
and quiet. She was worn out. Trying to please Liuyuan was hard work. He
was an odd person to begin with, and because he really was attached to her,
he was especially odd with her—always unhappy about something. It was
just  as  well  that  he  was  gone;  finally  she  could  relax.  She  didn’t  want
anyone now—hateful people, lovable people—she didn’t want any of them.
From  her  earliest  youth,  she’d  lived  in  an  overcrowded  world.  Pushing,
squeezing,  trampling,  hugging,  hauling,  old  people,  young  people,  people
everywhere. Twentysome people in a family, all in one house; you sat in a
room clipping a fingernail—someone was watching you from the window.
Now  at  last  she  had  flown  far  away,  to  this  unpeopled  place.  If  she  were
Mrs. Fan officially, she would have all sorts of responsibilities, there’d be
no getting rid of people. But now she was just Fan Liuyuan’s mistress, kept
in the background. She should avoid people and people should avoid her.

Peace  and  quiet  is  well  and  good.  But,  apart  from  people,  she  had  no
interests in life. All of her learning, such as it was, came from her aptitude
for  performing  in  the  human  sphere:  she  knew  how  to  be  a  grave,  good
daughter-in-law, a fussy, caring mother. But now she was a warrior without
a battlefield.  How  was  she supposed to  “mind the  house” when  there was
nothing to mind? Raise children? Liuyuan didn’t want children. Economize
and  save  for  the  future?  There  wasn’t  the  slightest  need  for  her  to  worry
about money. So how would she while away all this time? Play mah-jongg
with Mrs. Xu, watch operas? Start flirting with actors, smoke opium, go the
route  of  the  concubine?  She  pulled  herself  up  short  and  straightened  her
shoulders, clenching her clasped hands behind her back. It was not going to
come  to  that!  She  was  not  that  kind  of  person,  she  could  control  herself.
But… could she keep from going mad? Six rooms, three up and three down,
all  ablaze  with  light.  The  newly  waxed  floors  as  bright  as  snow.  And  no
sign  of  anyone.  One  room  after  another,  echoing  emptiness.  Liusu  lay  on

the bed. She wanted to turn off all the lights, but she couldn’t move an inch.
Finally she heard Ah Li coming up the stairs in her wooden clogs, clomping
back and forth as she turned the lights off—and then at last her mind slowly
relaxed.

That was on December 7, 1941. On December 8, the bombing started.
In  between  the  explosions,  the  silvery  winter  mist  slowly  cleared,  and  on
the peaks and in the valleys, all the people on the island looked toward the
sea  and  said,  “The  war  has  started,  the  war  has  started.”  No  one  could
believe  it,  but  the  war  had  started.  Liusu  was  alone  on  Babington  Road,
unaware of what was happening. By the time Ah Li had gone around to all
the  neighbors  to  get  the  news,  then  roused  her  from  sleep,  in  a  complete
panic,  the  fighting  had  begun  in  earnest.  There  was  a  scientific  research
station near Babington Road, with an antiaircraft gun, and stray bullets kept
whizzing down with a sharp whistling sound, before dropping to the earth
with a “crump.” The whistling noise split the air, shredded the nerves. The
light  blue  sky  was  ripped  into  strips  that  drifted  on  the  winter  wind.
Countless shreds of nerves also floated by.

Liusu’s  rooms  were  empty,  her  heart  was  empty,  and  there  wasn’t  any
food  in  the  house,  so  her  belly  was  empty  too.  Emptiness  sharpened
everything, and the pangs of fear hit her especially hard. She tried to phone
the  Xus  in  Happy  Valley  but  couldn’t  get  through—everyone  who  had  a
phone was calling around to ask where the safest refuges might be. Finally,
in  the  afternoon,  Liusu  got  through,  but  the  phone  just  rang  and  rang,  no
answer;  Mr.  and  Mrs.  Xu  must  have  fled  to  a  safer  place  already.  Liusu
didn’t  know  what  to  do,  and  the  shell  fire  intensified.  Then  the  bombers
targeted the antiaircraft gun near her house. They circled overhead, droning
like flies, like a dentist’s drill boring painfully into the soul. Ah Li sat on the
sitting-room threshold hugging her crying child. She seemed dazed, rocking
from  side  to  side,  singing  as  though  in  a  dream,  patting  and  soothing  her
child. Again the whistling sound—a “crump” broke off a corner of the roof,
spilling  rubble  down.  Ah  Li  screamed,  jumped  up,  and  rushed  toward  the
door,  still  carrying  her  child.  Liusu  ran  after  and  caught  her  at  the  front
door. “Where are you going?” she asked, grabbing the woman tightly.

“We can’t stay here! I’m taking her to the sewers to hide!”
“You’re crazy!” said Liusu. “You’ll be killed out there!”
“Let me go! This child… she’s my only one… can’t let her die… we’ll

go hide in the sewers…”

Liusu  held  her  back  with  all  her  might,  but  Ah  Li  pushed,  and  Liusu
fell.  Then  Ah  Li  rushed  to  the  door.  Just  as  she  reached  it,  there  was  an
earth-shattering boom, and the whole world went black, as if a giant lid had
slammed  down  on  some  stupendously  huge  trunk.  Untold,  immeasurable
fear and fury—all shut inside.

Liusu  thought  her  life  was  over,  but,  strangely  enough,  she  was  still
alive.  She  blinked:  the  floor  was  covered  with  glass  shards  and  sunlight.
She  struggled  to  her  feet,  and  went  to  look  for  Ah  Li.  Ah  Li  was  still
clutching  her  child,  her  head  drooping,  her  forehead  propped  against  the
porch wall. She’d been knocked silly. Liusu pulled her back inside, and they
heard the cries of people outside. They were saying that a bomb had fallen
next  door,  blowing  a  huge  crater  in  the  garden.  But  even  after  that  great
boom  and  the  closing  of  the  lid,  still  they  had  no  peace.  The  crumping
sounds  continued,  as  if  someone  were  hammering  nails  into  the  lid  of  the
trunk, hammering on and on; hammering from day to dark, then dark to day
again.

Liusu thought of Liuyuan, wondering if his ship had left the harbor, if it
had been sunk. But he seemed vague to her, like someone in another world.
Her  present  and  her  past  were  disconnected,  like  a  song  on  the  radio  that
had  played  halfway  through  and  then  was  cut  short  by  static.  Maybe  the
song would continue, after the crackling stopped. But if the end of the song
had been blasted off, then it would be over, nothing left to hear.

The  next  day,  Liusu,  Ah  Li,  and  Ah  Li’s  child  shared  the  last  biscuits
from a tin. Liusu was weak and exhausted, each crack of a screaming bomb
slapping her hard in the face. The lumbering sound of an army truck came
from  the  street.  It  stopped  at  their  door.  The  doorbell  rang,  and  Liusu
answered  it.  It  was  Liuyuan.  She  grabbed  his  hand  and  clutched  his  arm,
like Ah Li clutching her child; then she fell forward, hitting her head on the
porch wall.

Liuyuan lifted her face with his other hand. “Frightened? Don’t worry,”
he  urged  her.  “Go  get  your  things  together.  We’re  going  to  Repulse  Bay.
Hurry!”

Liusu  ran  back  in  and  started  rushing  around.  “Is  it  safe  in  Repulse

Bay?”

“They say a navy can’t land there. Anyway, the hotel has huge stocks of

food. There’ll be something to eat.”

“Your ship…”

“The ship never left. They took the first-class passengers to the Repulse
Bay Hotel. I tried to come yesterday, but I couldn’t get a car, and the buses
were jammed. Today, I finally managed to get this truck.”

Liusu  couldn’t  think  clearly  enough  to  pack  her  things,  so  she  just
grabbed  a  little  bag  and  stuffed  it  full.  Liuyuan  gave  Ah  Li  two  months’
salary and told her to watch the house. Then the two of them got into the
truck,  lying facedown  and side  by side  in  the  truck  bed, with  a canopy of
khaki oilcloth overhead. The ride was so bumpy that their knees and elbows
were scraped raw.

Liuyuan sighed. “This bombing blasted off the ends of an awful lot of

stories!”

Liusu  was  filled  with  sorrow.  Then,  after  a  moment,  she  said,  “If  you
were killed, my story would be over. But if I were killed, you’d still have a
lot of story left!”

“Were you planning on being my faithful widow?”
They were both a little unnerved, and for no reason at all they began to
laugh. Once they started they could not stop. But when they were finished
laughing, they shuddered from head to toe.

The  truck  drove  through  a  rain  of  bullets  back  to  Repulse  Bay.  Army
troops were stationed on the ground floor, so they stayed in their old room
on the second floor. After they had settled in, they found out that the stores
of food were all reserved for the troops. Besides canned milk, beef, mutton,
and fruit, there were sacks and sacks of bread, both whole wheat and white.
But the guests were only allotted two soda crackers, or two lumps of sugar,
per meal. Everyone was famished.

For  a  couple  of  days  all  was  quiet  at  Repulse  Bay,  then  suddenly  the
action heated up. There was nowhere on the second floor to take cover, so
they  had  to  leave.  Everyone  went  downstairs  to  the  dining  hall.  The  glass
doors were opened wide, with sandbags piled up in front: the British troops
were  firing  artillery  from  behind  the  sandbags.  When  the  gunboats  in  the
bay  figured  out  where  the  shooting  was  coming  from,  they  returned  fire.
Shells flew over the palm tree and the fountain in both directions. Liuyuan
and Liusu, along with everyone else, squeezed back against the wall.

It was a dark scene, like an ancient Persian carpet covered with woven
figures  of  many  people—old  lords,  princesses,  scholars,  beauties.  Draped
over a bamboo pole, the carpet was being beaten, dust flying in the wind.
Blow after blow, it was beaten till the people had nowhere to hide, nowhere

to  go.  The  shells  flew  this  way,  and  the  people  ran  over  there;  the  shells
flew that way, and the people all ran back. In the end, the whole hall was
riddled with holes. One wall had collapsed, and they had nowhere to hide.
They sat on the ground, awaiting their fate.

By this time, Liusu wished that Liuyuan wasn’t there: when one person
seems to have two bodies, danger is only doubled. If she wasn’t hit, he still
might  be,  and  if  he  died,  or  was  badly  wounded,  it  would  be  worse  than
anything she could imagine. If she got wounded, she’d have to die, so as not
to  be  a  burden  to  him.  Even  if  she  did  die,  it  wouldn’t  be  as  clean  and
simple  as  dying  alone.  She  knew  Liuyuan  felt  the  same  way.  Now  all  she
had was him; all he had was her.

The  fighting  ended.  The  men  and  women  who’d  been  trapped  in  the
Repulse Bay Hotel slowly walked toward the city. They walked past yellow
cliffs,  then  red  cliffs,  more  red  cliffs,  then  yellow  cliffs  again,  almost
wondering if they’d gotten lost, and were going in circles. But no, here was
a pit they hadn’t seen before, blasted out of the road and full of rubble.

Liuyuan  and  Liusu  spoke  very  little.  It  used  to  be  that  whenever  they
took a short trip in a car there was a dinner-party’s worth of conversation,
but  now,  walking  together  for  miles,  they  had  nothing  to  say.  Once  in  a
while, one of them would start a sentence, but since the other knew exactly
what would come next, there was no need to finish it.

“Look, on the beach,” said Liuyuan.
“Yes.”
The  beach  was  covered  with  tangled  coils  of  barbed  wire.  Past  the
barbed  wire,  the  white  seawater  gurgled,  drinking  in  and  spitting  out  the
yellow sand. The clear winter sky was a faint blue. The flame of the forest
was past its flowering season.

“That wall…” asked Liusu.
“Haven’t gone to check.”
Liusu sighed. “Doesn’t matter.”
Liuyuan was hot from walking, he took off his coat and slung it over his

shoulder, but his back was still covered with perspiration.
“You’re too warm,” Liusu said. “Let me take it.”
Before,  Liuyuan  would  never  have  agreed,  but  now  he  wasn’t  so

chivalrous; he handed his coat to her.

As they walked farther, the mountains got taller. Either it was the wind
blowing in the trees, or it was the moving shadow of a cloud, but somehow

the  greenish  yellow  lower  slopes  slowly  darkened.  Looking  more  closely,
you saw that it wasn’t the wind and it wasn’t the clouds but the sun moving
slowly over the mountain crest, blanketing the lower slope in a giant blue
shadow. Up on the  mountain,  smoke  rose  from burning  houses—white on
the shaded slopes, black on the sunlit slopes—while the sun kept on moving
slowly over the mountain crest.

They were home. They pushed open the half-shut door, and a little flock
of  pigeons  took  wing  and  fled.  The  hallway  was  full  of  dirt  and  pigeon
droppings. Liusu went to the staircase and cried out in surprise. The brand-
new trunks she had put in the rooms upstairs were strewn about wide open,
and  two  of  them  had  slid  partway  down  to  the  ground  floor,  so  that  the
stairs  were  buried  in  a  flowing  mass  of  satins  and  silks.  Liusu  bent  down
and picked up a brown wool-lined cheongsam. It wasn’t hers. Sweat marks,
dirt, cigarette burns, the scent of cheap perfume. She found more women’s
things,  old  magazines,  and  an  open  can  of  lychees,  the  juice  dripping  out
onto  her  clothes.  Had  some  troops  been  staying  here?  British  troops  who
had women with them? They seemed to have left in a hurry. The local poor
who’d turned to looting hadn’t been here; otherwise, these things would be
gone. Liuyuan helped her call for Ah Li. A last gray-backed pigeon scurried
past, whirred through the sunlit doorway, and flew off.

Ah Li was gone, who knew where. But even with the servant gone from
the  house,  the  masters  must  go  on  living.  They  couldn’t  worry  about  the
house  yet;  first  they  had  to  think  about  food.  Scrambling  around,  they
finally  turned  up  a  bag  of  rice,  which  they  bought  at  a  very  high  price.
Fortunately  the  gas  lines  had  not  been  cut,  but  there  wasn’t  any  running
water.  Liuyuan  took  a  lead-lined  bucket  up  the  mountain  to  fetch  some
springwater for cooking. In the days that followed, they spent all their time
preparing  meals  and  cleaning  house.  Liuyuan  did  all  kinds  of  chores—
sweeping,  mopping,  and  helping  Liusu  wring  out  the  heavy  laundered
sheets. Even though she’d never cooked before, Liusu managed to give the
food some real Shanghainese flavor. Liuyuan was fond of Malayan food, so
she also learned how to make satay and curried fish. Food became a major
source of interest, but they had to be very careful about expenses. Liuyuan
didn’t have a lot of Hong Kong dollars with him; they’d have to go back to
Shanghai as soon as they could get a boat.

Anyway, staying on in Hong Kong after the disaster was not a feasible
long-term plan. They had to scramble around all through the day just to get

by. Then, at  night, in  that dead city,  no lights,  no human  sounds, only  the
strong  winter  wind,  wailing  on  and  on  in  three  long  tones—oooh,  aaah,
eeei. When it stopped here, it started up there, like three gray dragons flying
side  by  side  in  a  straight  line,  long  bodies  trailing  on  and  on,  tails  never
coming  into  sight.  Oooh,  aaah,  eeei—wailing  until  even  the  sky  dragons
had gone, and there was only a stream of empty air, a bridge of emptiness
that  crossed  into  the  dark,  into  the  void  of  voids.  Here,  everything  had
ended.  There  were  only  some  broken  bits  of  leveled  wall  and,  stumbling
and fumbling about, a civilized man who had lost his memory; he seemed
to be searching for something, but there was nothing left.

Liusu sat up hugging her quilt and listening to the mournful wind. She
was sure that the gray brick wall near Repulse Bay was still as strong and
tall as ever. The wind stopped there, like three gray dragons coiling up on
top of the wall, the moonlight glinting off their silver scales. She seemed to
be going back in a dream, back to the base of that wall, and there she met
Liuyuan, finally and truly met him.

Here  in  this  uncertain  world,  money,  property,  the  permanent  things—
they’re all unreliable. The only thing she could rely on was the breath in her
lungs, and this person who lay sleeping beside her. Suddenly, she crawled
over  to  him,  hugging  him  through  his  quilt.  He  reached  out  from  the
bedding and grasped her hand. They looked and saw each other, saw each
other  entirely.  It  was  a  mere  moment  of  deep  understanding,  but  it  was
enough to keep them happy together for a decade or so.

He was just a selfish man; she was a selfish woman. In this age of chaos
and disorder, there is no place for those who stand on their own, but for an
ordinary married couple, room can always be found.

One day, when they were out shopping for food, they ran into Princess
Saheiyini. Her complexion was sallow; her loosened braids had been piled
up in a fluffy topknot. She was dressed in a long black cotton gown she had
picked  up  god  knows  where,  though  on  her  feet  she  still  wore  a  pair  of
fancy  Indian  slippers,  colorfully  embroidered  and  bejeweled.  She  shook
their hands warmly, asked where they were living, and wanted very much to
come  and  see  their  new  house.  Noticing  the  shelled  oysters  in  Liusu’s
basket, she wanted to learn how to make steamed oyster soup. So Liuyuan
invited  her  for  a  simple  meal,  and  she  was  very  happy  to  go  home  with
them. Her Englishman had been interned, and she was living now with an
Indian  policeman’s  family,  people  she  knew  well,  people  who  had  often

done little things for her. She hadn’t eaten a full meal in a long time. She
called Liusu “Miss Bai.”

“This is my wife,” said Liuyuan. “You should congratulate us!”
“Really? When did you get married?”
Liuyuan  shrugged  and  said,  “We  just  put  a  notice  in  the  Chinese

newspaper. You know, wartime weddings are always a bit slapdash.”

Liusu didn’t understand their English. Saheiyini kissed him, then kissed
her.  The  meal  was  skimpy,  and  Liuyuan  made  sure  Saheiyini  understood
that oyster soup was a treat. Saheiyini did not come back to their house.

After  they  had  seen  their  guest  off,  Liusu  stood  on  the  threshold  and
Liuyuan stood behind her. He closed her hands in his and said, “Well, when
should we get married?”

Liusu didn’t say a thing. She bowed her head and let the tears fall.
“Now,  now…”  Liuyuan  said,  gripping  her  hands  tightly.  “We  can  go
and put a notice in the paper today—unless of course you’d rather wait, and
throw a big bash when we get back to Shanghai, invite all the relatives—”

“Those  people!  Who’d  want  them?”  Saying  that  she  laughed,  leaned
back,  and  let  herself  go,  falling  against  him.  Liuyuan  ran  his  finger  down
her face. “First you cry, and then you laugh!” he said.

They walked into town together. Where the road took a sharp turn, the
land suddenly fell away—in front of them was only empty space, a damp,
pale gray sky. From a little iron gate frame hung an enameled sign with the
words DR. ZHAO XIANGQING, DENTIST. The sign creaked on its chains
in the wind. Behind it there was only that empty sky.

Liuyuan stopped in his tracks to stare. Feeling the terror in this ordinary
scene, he shivered. “Now you must believe ‘Facing life, death, distance…’
How can we decide these things? When the bombing was going on, just one
little slip…”

Liusu  chided  him:  “Are  you  still  saying  you’re  unable  to  make  this

decision?”

“No,  no,  I’m  not  giving  up  halfway!  What  I  mean  is…”  He  saw  her

face, then laughed. “Okay, I won’t try to say it!”

They  went  on  walking,  and  Liuyuan  said,  “The  gods  must  be  behind

this; we really did find out what love is!”

“You said a long time ago that you loved me.”
“That doesn’t count. We were way too busy falling in love— how could

we have found time to really love each other?”

When  the  marriage  announcement  was  posted  in  the  paper,  Mr.  and
Mrs. Xu rushed over to offer their congratulations. Liusu wasn’t altogether
pleased with them, since they had moved off to a safe place when the city
was besieged, not worrying a bit whether she lived or died. Still she had to
greet them with a smile. Liuyuan brought out some wine and a few dishes
for  a  belated  celebration.  Not  much  later,  travel  between  Hong  Kong and
Shanghai became possible again, and they returned to Shanghai.

Liusu  went  back  to  the  Bai  household  just  once,  afraid  that  with  so
many blabbermouths, something was sure to go wrong. And trouble could
not be avoided: Fourth Mistress had decided to divorce Fourth Master, and
everyone blamed Liusu for this. Liusu had divorced and married again with
such  astonishing  success—no  wonder  other  people  wanted  to  follow  her
example.  Liusu  crouched  down  in  the  lamplight,  lighting  mosquito-
repellant incense. When she thought of Fourth Mistress, she smiled.

Liuyuan  even  stopped  teasing  her,  saving  all  his  daring  talk  for  other
women.  That  was  a  good  sign,  worth  celebrating,  since  it  meant  that  she
was his own—his wife in name and in truth. Still, it made her a little sad.

Hong Kong’s defeat had brought Liusu victory. But in this unreasonable
world, who can distinguish cause from effect? Who knows which is which?
Did a great city fall so that she could be vindicated? Countless thousands of
people  dead,  countless  thousands  of  people  suffering,  after  that  an  earth-
shaking revolution… Liusu didn’t feel there was anything subtle about her
place  in  history.  She  stood  up,  smiling,  and  kicked  the  pan  of  mosquito-
repellant incense under the table.

Those legendary beauties who felled cities and kingdoms were probably

all like that.

Legends exist everywhere, but they don’t necessarily have such happy

endings.

When the huqin wails on a night of ten thousand lamps, the bow slides
back  and  forth,  drawing  forth  a  tale  too  desolate  for  words—oh!  why  go
into it?

THE GOLDEN CANGUE

Translated by Eileen Chang
SHANGHAI  thirty  years  ago  on  a  moonlit  night…  maybe  we  did  not
get to see the moon of thirty years ago. To young people the moon of thirty
years  ago  should  be  a  reddish-yellow  wet  stain  the  size  of  a  copper  coin,
like a teardrop on letter paper by To-yün Hsüan,1 worn and blurred. In old
people’s memory the moon of thirty years ago was gay, larger, rounder, and
whiter than the moon now. But looked back on after thirty years on a rough
road, the best of moons is apt to be tinged with sadness.

The moonlight reached the side of Feng-hsiao’s pillow. She was a slave
girl  brought  by  the  bride,  the  new  Third  Mistress  of  the  Chiangs.  She
opened  her  eyes  to  take  a  look  and  saw  her  own  blue-white  hand  on  the
half-worn  blanket  faced  with  quilted  Korean  silk.  “Is  it  moonlight?”  she
said to herself. She slept on a pallet on the floor under the window. The last
couple of years had been busy with the changing of dynasties. The Chiangs
coming to Shanghai as refugees did not have room, so the servants’ quarters
were crisscrossed with people sleeping.

Feng-hsiao seemed to hear a rustle behind the big bed and guessed that
somebody had got up to use the chamber pot. She turned over and, just as
she thought, the cloth curtain was thrust aside and a black shadow emerged,
shuffling  in  slippers  trodden  down  in  the  back.  It  was  probably  Little
Shuang, the personal maid of Second Mistress, and so she called out softly,
“Little Sister Shuang.”

Little  Shuang  came,  smiling,  and  gave  a  kick  to  the  pallet.  “I  woke
you.” She put both hands under her old lined jacket of dark violet silk, worn
over bright oil-green trousers. Feng-hsiao put out a hand to feel the trouser
leg and said, smiling:2

“Colorful  clothes  are  not  worn  so  much  now.  With  the  people  down

river,3 the fashions are all for no color.”

Little  Shuang  said,  smiling,  “You  don’t  know,  in  this  house  we  can’t
keep  up  with  other  people.  Our  Old  Mistress  is  strict,  even  the  young
mistresses  can’t  have  their  own  way,  not  to  say  us  slave  girls.  We  wear
what’s given us—all dressed like peasants.” She squatted down to sit on the
pallet  and  picked  up  a  little  jacket  at  Feng-hsiao’s  feet.  “Was  this  newly
made for your lady’s wedding?”

Feng-hsiao  shook  her  head.  “Of  my  wardrobe  for  the  season,  only  the

few pieces on view are new. The rest is just made up of discards.”

“This wedding happened to run into the revolution, really hard on your

lady.”

Feng-hsiao  sighed.  “Don’t  go  into  that  now.  In  times  like  this,  one
should  economize,  but  there  was  still  a  limit!  That  wedding  really  lacked
style.  That  one  of  ours  didn’t  say  anything,  but  how  could  she  not  be
angry?”

“I  shouldn’t  wonder  Third  Mistress  is  still  unhappy  about  it.  On  your
side  the  trousseau  was  passable,  the  wedding  preparations  we  made  were
really too dismal. Even that year we took our Second Mistress it was better
than this.”

Feng-hsiao was taken aback. “How? Your Second Mistress…”
Little Shuang took off her shoes and stepped barefoot across Feng-hsiao

to the window. “Get up and look at the moon,” she said.

Feng-hsiao scrambled quickly to her feet. “I was going to ask all along,

your Second Mistress…”

Little Shuang bent down to pick up the little jacket and put it over her

shoulders. “Be careful you don’t catch cold.”

Feng-hsiao said, smiling, as she buttoned it up, “No, you’ve got to tell

me.”

“My fault, I shouldn’t have let it out,” Little Shuang said, smiling.
“We are like sisters now. Why treat me like an outsider?”
“If  I  tell  you,  don’t  you  tell  your  lady  though.  Our  Second  Mistress’s

family owns a sesame oil shop.”

“Oh!”  Feng-hsiao  was  surprised.  “A  sesame  oil  shop!  How  on  earth
could they stoop so low! Now your Eldest Mistress is from a titled family;
ours  can’t  compare  with  Eldest  Mistress,  but  she  also  came  from  a
respectable family.”

“Of  course  there  was  a  reason.  You’ve  seen  our  Second  Master,  he’s
crippled.  What  mandarin  family would  give  him a daughter for  wife?  Old
Mistress didn’t know what to  do, First  was  going  to  get  him a concubine,
and the matchmaker found this one of the Ts’ao family, called Ch’i-ch’iao4
because she was born in the seventh month.”
“Oh, a concubine,” said Feng-hsiao.
“Was  to  be  a  concubine.  Then  Old  Mistress  thought,  since  Second
Master  was  not  going  to  take  a  wife,  it  wouldn’t  do  either  for  the  second
branch to be without its proper mistress. Just as well to have her for a wife
so she would faithfully look after Second Master.”

Feng-hsiao leaned her hands on the window sill, musing. “No wonder.

Although I’m new here, I’ve guessed some of it too.”

“Dragons  breed  dragons,  phoenixes  breed  phoenixes—as  the  saying
goes.  You  haven’t  heard  her  conversation!  Even  in  front  of  the  unmarried
young  ladies  she  says  anything  she  likes.  Lucky  that  in  our  house  not  a
word goes out from inside, nor comes in from outside, so the young ladies
don’t  understand  a  thing.  Even  then  they  get  so  embarrassed  they  don’t
know where to hide.”

Feng-hsiao  tittered.  “Really?  Where  could  she  have  picked  up  this

vulgar language? Even us slave girls—”

Little  Shuang  said,  holding  her  own  elbows,  “Why,  she  was  the  big
attraction at the sesame oil shop, standing at the counter, and dealing with
all kinds of customers. What have we got to compare with her?”

“Did you come with her when she was married?”
Little Shuang sneered. “How could she afford me! I used to wait on Old
Mistress,  but  Second  Master  took  medicine  all  day  and  had  to  be  helped
around  all  the  time,  and  since  they  were  short  of  hands,  I  was  sent  over
there.  Why,  are  you  cold?”  Feng-hsiao  shook  her  head.  “Look  at  you,  the
way  you  pulled  in  your  neck,  so  cuddlesome!”  She  had  hardly  finished
speaking  when  Feng-hsiao  sneezed.  Right  away  Little  Shuang  gave  her  a
push. “Go to bed, go to bed. Warm yourself.”

Feng-hsiao knelt down to take her jacket off. “It’s not winter, you don’t

catch cold just like that.”

“The  window  may  be  closed  but  the  wind  squeaks  in  through  the

crevices.”

They both lay down. Feng-hsiao asked in a whisper, “Been married for

four, five years now?”

“Who?”
“Who else?”
“Oh, she. That’s right, it’s been five years.”
“Had children too, and gave people nothing to talk about?”
“As  to  that—!  Plenty  to  talk  about.  The  year  before  last  Old  Mistress
took everybody in the house on a pilgrimage to Mount P’u-t’o. She didn’t
go  because  it  was  just  after  her  lying  in,  so  she  was  left  at  home  to  look
after the house. Master-in-law5 called a bit too often and a batch of things
was lost.”

Feng-hsiao was startled. “And they never got to the bottom of it?”

“What would have come of that? It would have been embarrassing for
everybody. Anyway, the jewelry would have gone to Eldest Master, Second
Master,  and  Third  Master  one  day.  Eldest  Master  and  Eldest  Mistress
couldn’t very well say anything on account of Second Master. Third Master
was in no position to, he himself was spending money like water and had
borrowed a lot from the family accounts.”

The two of them talked across ten feet. Despite their effort to lower their
voices, a louder sentence or two woke up old Mrs. Chao on the big bed. She
called  out,  “Little  Shuang.”  Little  Shuang  did  not  dare  answer.  Old  Mrs.
Chao  said,  “Little  Shuang,  if  you  talk  more  nonsense  and  let  people  hear
you, be careful you don’t get skinned tomorrow!” Little Shuang kept still.
“Don’t  think  you’re  still  in  the  deep  halls  and  big  courtyards  we  lived  in
before, where you had room to talk crazy and act silly. Here it’s cheek by
jowl, nothing can be kept from other people. Better stop talking if you want
to avoid a beating.”

Immediately the room became silent. Old Mrs. Chao, who had inflamed
eyes, had stuffed her pillow with chrysanthemum leaves, said to make eyes
clear  and  cool.  She  now  raised  her  head  to  press  down  the  silver  hairpin
tucked across her bun and the chrysanthemum leaves rustled with the slight
stir.  She  turned  over,  her  whole  frame  pulled  into  motion,  all  her  bones
squeaking. She sighed, “You people—! What do you know?” Little Shuang
and Feng-hsiao still dared not reply. For a long time nobody spoke, and one
by one they drifted off to sleep.

It was almost dawn. The flat waning moon got lower, lower and larger,
and  by  the  time  it  sank,  it  was  like  a  red  gold  basin.  The  sky  was  a  cold
bleak crab-shell blue. The houses were only a couple of stories high, pitch-
dark under the sky, so it was possible to see far. At the horizon the morning
colors  were  a  layer  of  green,  a  layer  of  yellow,  and  a  layer  of  red  like  a
watermelon  cut  open—the  sun  was  coming  up.  Gradually  wheelbarrows
and big pushcarts began rattling along the road, and horse carriages passed,
hoofs tapping. The beancurd soup vender with the flat pole on his shoulder
hawked  his  wares  slowly,  swingingly.  Only  the  long-drawn  last  syllable
carried, “Haw… O! Haw… O!” Farther off, it became “Aw… O! Aw… O!”
In  the  house  the  slave  girls  and  amahs  had  also  got  up,  in  a  flurry  to
open  the  room  doors,  fetch  hot  water,  fold  up  bedding,  hook  up  the  bed-
curtains,  and  do  the  hair.  Feng-hsiao  helped  Third  Mistress  Lan-hsien  get
dressed. Lan-hsien leaned close to the mirror for a careful look, pulled out

from  under  her  armpit  a  pale  green  blossom-flecked  handkerchief,  rubbed
some  powder  off  the  wings  of  her  nose,  and  said  with  her  back  to  Third
Master on the bed. “I’d better go first to pay my respects to Old Mistress.
I’d be late if I waited for you.”

As  she  was  speaking,  Eldest  Mistress  Tai-chen  came  and  stood  on  the

doorstep, saying with a smile, “Third Sister, let’s go together.”

Lan-hsien hurried up to her. “I was just getting worried I’d be late—so
Eldest Sister-in-law hasn’t gone up yet. What about Second Sister-in-law?”

“She’ll still be a while.”
“Getting Second Brother his medicine?”
Tai-chen looked around to make sure there was no one about before she
said, smiling, “It’s not so much taking medicine as—” She put her thumb to
her  lips,  made  a  fist  with  the  three  middle  fingers,  sticking  out  the  little
finger, and shushed softly a couple of times.

Lan-hsien said, surprised, “They both smoke this?”
Tai-chen nodded. “With your Second Brother it’s out in the open, with
her it’s kept from Old Mistress, which makes things difficult for us, caught
in  between—have  to  cover  up  for  her.  Actually  Old  Mistress  knows  very
well. Purposely pretends she doesn’t, orders her around and tortures her in
little  ways,  just  so  that  she  can’t  smoke  her  fill.  Actually,  to  think  of  it,  a
woman and so young, what great worries could she have, to need to smoke
this to take her mind off things?”

Tai-chen  and  Lan-hsien  went  upstairs  hand  in  hand,  each  followed  by
the  slave  girl  closest  to  her,  to  the  small  anteroom  next  door  to  Old
Mistress’s  bedroom.  The  slave  girl  Liu-hsi  came  out  to  them  whispering,
“Not awake yet.”

Tai-chen  glanced  up  at  the  grandfather  clock  and  said,  smiling,  “Old

Mistress is also late today.”

“Said she didn’t sleep well the last couple of days, too much noise on

the street,” Liu-hsi said. “Probably used to it now, making up for it today.”

Beside the little round pedestal table of purple elm covered with a strip
of  scarlet  felt  sat  Yün-tse,  the  second  daughter  of  the  house,  cracking
walnuts with a little nutcracker. She put it down and got up to greet them.
Tai-chen laid a hand on her shoulder. “Sister Yün, you are really filial. Old
Mistress  happened  to  be  in  the  mood  yesterday  to  want  some  sugared
walnuts made, and you remembered.”

Lan-hsien and Tai-chen sat down around the table and helped to peel the
walnut  skin.  Yün-tse’s  hands  got  tired  and  Lan-hsien  took  the  nutcracker
that she put down.

“Be careful of those nails of yours, as slender as scallions. It would be a

pity to break them when you’ve grown them so long,” said Tai-chen.
“Have somebody go and get your gold nail sheath,” Yün-tse said.
“So much bother, we might as well have them shelled in the kitchen,”

said Lan-hsien.

As  they  were  talking  and  laughing  in  undertones,  Liu-hsi  raised  the

curtain with a stick, announcing, “Second Mistress is here.”

Lan-hsien and Yün-tse rose to ask her to sit down but Ts’ao Ch’i-ch’iao
would not be seated as yet. With one hand on the doorway and the other on
her waist, she first looked around. On her thin face were a vermilion mouth,
triangular eyes, and eyebrows curved like little hills. She wore a pale pink
blouse over narrow mauve trousers with a flickering blue scroll design and
greenish-white  incense-stick  binding.6  A  lavender  silk  crepe  handkerchief
was half tucked around the wrist in one narrow blouse sleeve. She smiled,
showing  her  small  fine  teeth,  and  said,  “Everybody’s  here.  I  suppose  I’m
late again today. How can I help it, doing my hair in the dark? Who gave
me a window facing the back yard? I’m the only one to get a room like that.
That  one  of  ours  is  evidently  not  going  to  live  long  anyway,  we’re  just
waiting to be widow and orphans—whom to bully, if not us?”

Tai-chen blandly said nothing. Lan-hsien said, smiling, “Second Sister-
in-law is used to the houses in Peking, no wonder she finds it too cramped
here.”

Yün-tse said, “Eldest Brother should have got a larger one when he was
house-hunting,  but  I’m  afraid  this  counts  as  a  bright  and  airy  house  for
Shanghai.”

Lan-hsien said, “That is so. It’s true it’s a bit crowded, really, so many

people in the house—”

Ch’i-ch’iao  rolled  up  her  sleeve  and  tucked  the  handkerchief  in  her
green jade bracelet, glanced sideways at Lan-hsien, and said, smiling, “So
Third Sister feels there’re too many people. If it’s too crowded for us, who
have been married for years, naturally it’s too crowded for newlyweds like
you.”

Before Lan-hsien could say anything, Tai-chen blushed, saying, “Jesting
is jesting, but there’s a limit. Third Sister has just come here, what will she

think of us?”

Ch’i-ch’iao pulled up a corner of her handkerchief to cover her mouth.
“I  know  you’re  all  young  ladies  from  respectable  homes.  Just  try  and
change places with me, I’m afraid you couldn’t put up with it for even one
night.”

Tai-chen made a spitting noise. “This is too much. The more you talk,

the more impertinent you get.”

At  this  Ch’i-ch’iao  went  up  and  took  Tai-chen  by  her  sleeve.  “I  can
swear—I can swear for the last three years. Do you dare swear? You dare
swear?”

Even Tai-chen could not help a titter, and then she muttered, “How is it

that you even got two children?”

Ch’i-ch’iao said, “Really, even I don’t know how the children got born.

The more I think about it the more I can’t understand.”

Tai-chen held up her right hand and waved it from side to side. “Enough
talk in this vein. Granted that you take Third Sister as one of our own, and
feel  free  to  say  anything  you  like,  still  Sister  Yün’s  here.  If  she  tells  Old
Mistress later, you’ll get more than you want.”

Yün-tse had walked off long ago, and was standing on the veranda with
her  hands  behind  her  back,  whistling  at  the  canary  to  make  it  sing.  The
Chiangs lived in a modern foreign-style house of an early period, tall arches
supported by thick pillars of red brick with a floral capital, but the upstairs
veranda had a wooden floor. Behind the railings of willow wood was a row
of large baskets of bamboo splits, in which dried bamboo shoots were being
aired.  The  worn  sunlight  pervaded  the  air  like  gold  dust,  slightly  choking
and  dizzying  when  rubbed  in  the  eyes.  Far  away  in  the  street  a  peddler
shook a rattle-drum whose sleepy beat, bu lung dung… bu lung dung,  held
the memory of many children now grown old. The private rickshas tinkled
as they ran past and an occasional car horn went ba ba.

Because Ch’i-ch’iao knew that everybody in this house looked down on
her, she was especially warm to the newcomer. Leaning on the back of Lan-
hsien’s  chair,  she  asked  her  this  and  that  and  spoke  admiringly  of  her
fingernails after giving her hand a thorough inspection. Then she added, “I
grew one on my little finger last year fully half an inch longer than this, and
broke it picking flowers.”

Lan-hsien  had  already  seen  through  Ch’i-ch’iao  and  understood  her
position at the Chiangs’. She kept smiling but hardly answered. Ch’i-ch’iao

felt the slight. Ambling over to the veranda, she picked up Yün-tse’s pigtail
and  shook  it,  making  conversation,  “  Yo!  How  come  your  hair  is  so  thin?
Only last year you had such a head of glossy black hair—must have lost a
lot?”

Yün-tse turned aside to protect her pigtail, saying with a smile, “I can’t

even lose a few hairs without your permission?”

Ch’i-ch’iao  went  on  scrutinizing  her  and  called  out,  “Eldest  Sister-in-
law, come and take a look. Sister Yün has really grown much thinner. Could
it be that the young lady has something on her mind?”

With marked annoyance Yün-tse slapped Ch’i-ch’iao’s hand to get it off
her person. “You’ve really gone crazy today. As if you’re not enough of a
nuisance ordinarily.”

Ch’i-ch’iao tucked her hands in her sleeves. “What a temper the young

lady has,” she said, smiling.

Tai-chen put her head out, saying, “Sister Yün, Old Mistress is up.”
Each of them straightened her blouse hastily, smoothed her hair in front
of her ears, lifted the curtain to go into the next room, curtsied, and waited
on Old Mistress at breakfast. The old women holding trays went in through
the living room; the slave  girls  inside  took  the  dishes  from them and they
returned  to  wait  in  the  outer  room.  It  was  quiet  inside,  scarcely  anybody
saying  anything;  the  only  sound  was  the  rustle  of  the  thin  silver  chain
aquiver at the top of a pair of silver chopsticks.

Old Mistress believed in Buddha and made it a rule to worship for two
hours after breakfast. Coming out with the others, Yün-tse managed to ask
Tai-chen without being overheard, “Isn’t Second Sister-in-law in a hurry to
go for her smoke? Why is she still hanging around inside?”

Tai-chen said, “I suppose she has a few words to say in private.”
Yün-tse  could  not  help  laughing.  “As  if  Old  Mistress  would  listen  to

anything she had to say!”

Tai-chen laughed cynically. “That you can’t tell. Old people are always
changing their minds. When it’s dinned into your ears all day long, it’s just
possible you’ll believe one sentence out often.”

As  Lan-hsien  sat  cracking  walnuts,  Tai-chen  and  Yün-tse  went  to  the
veranda, though not purposely to eavesdrop on the conversation in the main
chamber.  Old  Mistress,  being  of  advanced  age,  was  a  little  deaf,  so  her
voice  was  especially  loud.  Intentionally  or  not,  the  people  on  the  veranda
heard much of the talk. Yün-tse turned white with anger; she first held her

fists tight, then flicked her hands forcibly and ran toward the other end of
the veranda. After a couple of running steps she stood still and bent forward
with her face in her hands, sobbing.

Tai-chen hurried up to hold her. “Sister, don’t be like this! Stop it quick.
It’s  not  worth  your  while  to  heed  the  likes  of  her.  Who  takes  her  words
seriously?”

Yün-tse struggled free and ran straight to her own room. Tai-chen came
back to the living room and clapped her hands once. “The damage is done.”

Lan-hsien hastened to ask, “What happened?”
“Your Second Sister-in-law was just telling Old Mistress, ‘A grown girl
won’t keep,’ and Old Mistress is to write to the P’engs to come for the bride
quick. Look, what kind of talk is this?”

Lan-hsien, also stunned, said, “Wouldn’t it be slapping one’s own face,

for the girl’s family to say a thing like this?”

“The Chiangs will only lose face temporarily, but not Sister Yün. How
are they to respect her over there when she gets married? She still has her
life to live.”

“Old  Mistress  is  understanding,  she’s  not  likely  to  share  that  person’s

views.”

“Of course Old Mistress didn’t like it at first, saying a daughter of our
house would never have such ideas. So she said, ’ Yo! you don’t know the
girls nowadays. How can they compare with the girls when you were a girl?
Times  have  changed,  and  people  also  change,  otherwise  why  is  there
trouble all over the world?’ You know, old people like to hear this sort of
thing. Old Mistress is not so sure any more.”

Lan-hsien sighed, saying, “How on earth did she have the gall to make

up such stories?”

Tai-chen rested both elbows on the table and stroked an eyebrow with a
little finger. After a moment of reflection she snickered, “She thinks she’s
toward  Sister  Yün!  Spare  me  her
being 
thoughtfulness.”

thoughtful 

specially 

Lan-hsien  grabbed  hold  of  her.  “Listen—that  can’t  be  Sister  Yün?”
There  seemed  to  be  loud  weeping  in  a  back  room  and  the  rattle  of  brass
bedposts being kicked and a hubbub of voices trying to soothe and reason to
no avail.

Tai-chen  stood  up.  “I’ll  go  and  see.  This  young  lady  may  be  good-

tempered, but she can fight back if cornered.”

Tai-chen  was  gone  when  Third  Master  Chiang  came  in  yawning.  A
robust youth, tending toward plumpness, Chiang Chi-tse sported down his
neck  a  big  shiny  three-strand  pigtail  loosely  plaited.  He  had  the  classic
domed  forehead  and  squarish  lower  face,  chubby  bright  red  cheeks,
glistening  dark  eyebrows,  and  moist  black  eyes  where  some  impatience
always showed through. Over a narrow-sleeved gown of bamboo-root green
he wore a little sleeveless jacket the color of sesame-dotted, purplish-brown
soy paste, buttoned across with pearls from shoulder to shoulder. He asked
Lan-hsien, “Who’s talking away to Old Mistress inside there?”

“Second Sister-in-law.”
Chi-tse pressed his lips tight and shook his head.
“You’ve had enough of her, too?” Lan-hsien said, smiling.
Chi-tse said nothing, just pulled a chair over, pushed its back against the
table, threw the hem of his gown up high and sat down astride the chair, his
chin  on  the  chair  back,  and  picked  up  and  ate  one  piece  of  walnut  after
another.

Lan-hsien gave him a look from the corners of her eyes. “People peeling

them the whole morning, was it all for your sake?”

Just  then  Ch’i-ch’iao  lifted  the  curtain  and  came  out.  The  minute  she
saw Chi-tse she involuntarily circled over to the back of Lan-hsien’s chair,
put  both  hands  around  Lan-hsien’s  neck  and  bent  her  head  down,  saying
with a smirk, “What a ravishing bride! Third Brother, you haven’t thanked
me  yet.  If  I  hadn’t  hurried  them  to  get  this  done  for  you  early,  you  might
have had to wait eight or ten years for the war to be over. You’d have died
of impatience.”

Lan-hsien’s  greatest  regret  was  that  her  wedding  had  happened  in  a
period  of  national  emergency  and  lacked  pomp  and  style.  As  soon  as  she
heard these jarring words, her narrow little face fell to its full length like a
scroll.  Chi-tse  glanced  at  her  and  said,  smiling,  “Second  Sister-in-law,  a
good heart does not get rewards, as of old. Nobody feels obliged to you.”

“That’s all right with me, I’m used to it,” said Ch’i-ch’iao, “Ever since I
stepped inside the Chiang house, just nursing your Second Brother all these
years,  watching  over  the  sickbed  day  and  night,  just  for  that  alone  you’d
think I’ve  done some  good and nothing wrong,  but  who’s ever  grateful  to
me? Who ever did me half a good turn?”

Chi-tse  said,  smiling,  “You’re  full  of  grievances  the  minute  you  open

your mouth.”

With a long-drawn-out groan she kept fingering the gold triad7 and key
chain buttoned on Lan-hsien’s lapel. After a long pause she suddenly said,
“At  least  you  haven’t  fooled  around  outside  for  a  month  or  so.  Thanks  to
the  bride,  she  made  you  stay  home.  Anybody  else  could  beg  you  on  bent
knees and you wouldn’t.”

“Is that so? Sister-in-law never asked me, how do you know I won’t?”

he said, smiling, and signaled Lan-hsien with his eyes.

Ch’i-ch’iao doubled up laughing. “Why don’t you do something about
him,  Third  Sister?  The  little  monkey,  I  saw  him  grow  up,  and  now  he’s
joking at my expense!”

While  talking  and  laughing  she  felt  bothered;  her  restless  hands
squeezed and kneaded Lan-hsien, beating and knocking lightly with a fist as
if she wished to squash her out of shape. No matter how patient Lan-hsien
was,  she  could  not  help  getting  annoyed.  With  her  temper  rising,  she
applied more strength than she should using the nutcracker, and broke the
two-inch fingernail clean off at the quick.

“ Yo!”  Ch’i-ch’iao  cried.  “Quick,  get  scissors  and  trim  it.  I  remember
there  was  a  pair  of  little  scissors  in  this  room.  Little  Shuang!”  she  called
out. “Liu-hsi! Come, somebody!”

Lan-hsien rose. “Never mind, Second Sister-in-law, I’ll go and cut it in

my room.” She went.

Ch’i-ch’iao  sat  down  in  Lan-hsien’s  chair.  Leaning  her  cheek  on  her
hand and lifting her eyebrows, she gazed sideways at Chi-tse. “Is she angry
with me?”

“Why should she be?” he said, smiling.
“I was just going to ask that. Could I have said anything wrong? What’s

wrong with keeping you at home? She’d rather have you go out?”

He  said,  smiling,  “The  whole  family  from  Eldest  Brother  and  Eldest
Sister-in-law down, all want to discipline me, just for fear that I’ll spend the
money in the general accounts.”

“By  Buddha,  I  can’t  vouch  for  the  others  but  I  don’t  think  like  that.
Even if you get into debt and mortgage houses and sell land, if I so much as
frown I’m not your Second Sister-in-law. Aren’t we the closest kin? I just
want you to take care of your health.”

He  could  not  suppress  a  titter.  “Why  are  you  so  worried  about  my

health?”

Her  voice  trembled.  “Health  is  the  most  important  thing  for  anybody.
Look at your Second Brother, the way he gets, is he still a person? Can you
still treat him as one?”

Chi-tse looked serious. “Second Brother is not like me, he was born like
this. It’s not that he ruined his health. He’s a pitiful man, it’s up to Second
Sister-in-law to take care of him.”

Ch’i-ch’iao stood up stiffly, holding on to the table with both hands, her
eyelids down and the lower half of her face quivering as if she held scalding
hot melted candlewax in her mouth. She forced out two sentences in a small
high voice, “Go sit next to your Second Brother. Go sit next to your Second
Brother.”  She  tried  to  sit  beside  Chi-tse  and  only  got  onto  a  corner  of  his
chair and put her hand on his leg. “Have you touched his flesh? It’s soft and
heavy, feels like your feet when they get numb…”

Chi-tse had changed color too. Still he gave a frivolous little laugh and

bent down to pinch her foot. “Let’s see if they are numb.”

“Heavens,  you’ve  never  touched  him,  you  don’t  know  how  good  it  is
not to be sick… how good…” She slid down from the chair and squatted on
the  floor,  weeping  inaudibly  with  her  face  pillowed  on  her  sleeve;  the
diamond  on  her  hairpin  flashed  as  it  jerked  back  and  forth.  Against  the
diamond’s  flame  shone  the  solid  knot  of  pink  silk  thread  binding  a  little
bunch of hair at the heart of the bun. Her back convulsed as it sank lower
and  lower.  She  seemed  to  be  not  so  much  weeping  as  vomiting,  churning
and pumping out her bowels.

A little stunned at first, Chi-tse got up. “I’m going, if that’s all right with
you.  If  you’re  not  afraid  of  being  seen,  I  am.  Have  to  save  some  face  for
Second Brother.”

Holding  onto  the  chair  to  get  up,  she  said,  sobbing,  “I’ll  leave.”  She
pulled out a handkerchief from her sleeve to dab at her face and suddenly
smiled slightly. “You’re so protective of your Second Brother.”

Chi-tse  laughed.  “If  I  don’t  protect  him,  who  will?”  Ch’i-ch’iao  said,
walking  toward  the  door,  “You’re  a  good  one  to  talk.  Don’t  try  to  act  the
hypocrite in front of me. Why, just in these rooms alone… nothing escapes
my  eyes—not  to  mention  how  wild  you  are  once  outside  the  house.  You
probably  wouldn’t even mind having  your wet nurse,  let alone  a sister-in-
law.”

“I’ve  always  been  easygoing  about  things.  How  am  I  supposed  to

defend myself if you pick on me?” he said, smiling.

On her way out she again leaned her back against the door, whispering,
“What I don’t get is in what way I’m not as good as the others. What is it
about me that’s no good?”

“My good sister-in-law, you’re all good.”
She said with a laugh, “Could it be that staying with a cripple, I smell
crippled  too,  and  it  will  rub  off  on  you?”  She  stared  straight  ahead,  the
small, solid gold pendants of her earrings like two brass nails nailing her to
the door, a butterfly specimen in a glass box, bright-colored and desolate.

Looking at her, Chi-tse also wondered. But that would not do. He loved
to play around but had made up his mind long ago not to flirt with members
of the family. When the mood had passed one could neither avoid them nor
kick them aside, they would be a burden all the time. Besides, Ch’i-ch’iao
was  so  outspoken  and  hot-tempered,  how  could  the  thing  be  kept  secret?
And  she  was  so  unpopular,  who  would  cover  up  for  her,  high  or  low?
Perhaps she no longer cared and would not even mind if it got known. But
why  should  a  young  man  like  him  take  the  risk?  He  spoke  up:  “Second
Sister-in-law, young as I am, I’m not one who’d do just anything.”

There  seemed  to  be  footsteps.  With  a  flip  of  his  gown  he  ducked  into
Old Mistress’s room, grabbing a handful of shelled walnuts by the way. She
had not quite come to her senses, but when she heard someone pushing the
door she roused herself, managing the best she could and hiding behind the
door. When she saw Tai-chen walk in, she came out and slapped her on the
back.

Tai-chen forced a smile. “You’re in better spirits than ever.” She looked
at the table. “My, so many walnuts, practically all eaten up. It couldn’t be
anybody but Third Brother.”

Ch’i-ch’iao  leaned  against  the  table,  facing  the  veranda  and  saying

nothing.

“People  had  to  shell  them  all  morning,  and  he  came  along  to  enjoy

himself.” Tai-chen grumbled as she took a seat.

Ch’i-ch’iao  scraped  the  red  table  cover  with  a  piece  of  sharp  walnut
shell, one hard stroke after another until the felt turned hairy and was about
to  tear.  She  said  between  clenched  teeth,  “Isn’t  it  the  same  with  money?
We’re always told to save, save it so others can take it out by the handfuls
to spend. That’s what I can’t get over.”

Tai-chen  glanced  at  her  and  said  coldly,  “That  can’t  be  helped.  When
there’re too many people, if it doesn’t go in the open it will go in the dark.

Control this one and you can’t control that one.”

Ch’i-ch’iao felt the sting and was just about to reply in kind when Little
Shuang  came  in  furtively  and  walked  up  to  her,  mumbling,  “Mistress,
Master-in-law is here.”

“Master-in-law’s coming here is nothing to hide. You’ve got a growth in
your  throat  or  what?”  Ch’i-ch’iao  cursed.  “You  sound  like  a  mosquito
humming.”

Little Shuang backed off a step and dared not speak.
Tai-chen said, “So your brother has come to Shanghai too. It seems all

our relatives are here.”

Ch’i-ch’iao  started  out  of  the  room.  “He’s  not  to  come  to  Shanghai?
With  war  inland,  poor  people  want  to  stay  alive  too.”  She  stopped  at  the
doorstep and asked Little Shuang, “Have you told Old Mistress?”

“Not yet,” said Little Shuang.
Ch’i-ch’iao thought for a moment and went downstairs quietly because
she  didn’t  have  the  courage  after  all  to  go  in  and  tell  Old  Mistress  of  her
brother’s arrival.

Tai-chen asked Little Shuang, “Master-in-law came alone?”
“With  Mistress-in-law,  carrying  food  in  a  two-decked  set  of  round

wooden boxes.”

Tai-chen chuckled, “They went to all that expense.”
Little  Shuang  said,  “Eldest  Mistress  needn’t  feel  sorry  for  them.  What
comes  in  full  will  go  out  full  too.  To  them  even  remnants  are  good,  for
making slippers and waistbands, not to mention round or flat pieces of gold
and silver.”

“Don’t  be  so  unkind.  You’d  better  go  down,”  Tai-chen  said,  smiling.
“Her family seldom comes here. Not enough service and there’d be trouble
again.”

Little  Shuang  hurried  out.  Ch’i-ch’iao  was  just  cross-questioning  Liu-
hsi at the top of the stairs to see if Old Mistress knew. Liu-hsi replied, “Old
Mistress was at her prayers, Third Master was leaning against the window
looking  out,  and  he  said  there  were  guests  coming  in  the  front  gate.  Old
Mistress asked who it was. Third Master looked hard and said he was not
sure that it wasn’t Master-in-law Ts’ao, and Old Mistress left it at that.”

Fire leaped up inside Ch’i-ch’iao as she heard this. She stamped her feet
and muttered on her way downstairs, “So— just going to pretend you don’t
know. If you are going to be so snobbish, why did you bother to carry me

here  in  a  sedan  chair,  complete  with  three  matchmakers  and  six  wedding
gifts? Ties of kinship not even a sharp knife can sever. Even if you’re not
just feigning death today but are really dead, he will have to come to your
funeral and kowtow three times and you will have to take it.”

Her  room  was  screened  off  by  a  stack  of  gold-lacquered  trunks  right
inside the door, leaving just a few feet of space. As she lifted the curtain, all
she  saw  was  her  brother’s  wife  bent  over  the  box  set  to  remove  the  top
section  containing  little  pies  so  as  to  see  if  the  dishes  underneath  had
spilled.  Her  brother  Ts’ao  Ta-nien  bowed  down  to  look,  hands  behind  his
back. Ch’i-ch’iao felt a wave of acid pain rising in her heart and could not
restrain a shower of tears as she leaned against the trunks, her face pressed
against  their  padded  covers  of  sandy  blue  cloth.  Her  sister-in-law
straightened  up  hastily  and  rushed  up  to  hold  her  hand  in  both  of  hers,
calling her Miss over and over again. Ts’ao Ta-nien also had to rub his eyes
with a raised sleeve. Ch’i-ch’iao unbuttoned the frogs on the trunk jackets
with her free hand, only to button them up again, unable to say anything all
the while.

Her  sister-in-law  turned  to  give  her  brother  a  look.  “Say  something!
Talking about Sister all the time, now that you see her you’re again like the
gourd with its mouth sawed off.”8

Ch’i-ch’iao said in a quavering voice, “No wonder he has nothing to say
—how could he face me?” and turning to her brother, “I thought you would
never want to come here! You have ruined me well and good. You walked
away just like that, but I couldn’t leave. You don’t care if I live or die.”

Ts’ao  Ta-nien  said,  “What  are  you  saying?  It’s  one  thing  for  other
people to talk like this, but you too! If you don’t cover up for me you won’t
look so good either.”

“Even  if  I  say  nothing,  I  can’t  keep  other  people  from  talking.  Just
because of you I’ve got all kinds of illnesses from anger. After all this, you
still try to gag me with these words!”

Her  sister-in-law  interposed  quickly,  “It  was  his  fault,  his  fault!  Miss
has  been  put  upon.  However,  Miss  has  not  suffered  just  on  that  account
alone—be patient anyway, there will be happiness in the end.” The words
“However,  Miss  has  not  suffered  just  on  that  account  alone”  struck  Ch’i-
ch’iao  as  so  true  that  she  began  to  weep.  It  made  her  sister-in-law  so
nervous  she  kept  shaking  a  raised  hand  from  side  to  side,  saying,  “Be
careful you don’t wake up Ku-yeh.”9 The net curtains hung still on the big

dark  bed  of  purple  cedar  over  on  the  other  side  of  the  room.  “Is  Ku-yeh
asleep? He’d be angry if we disturbed him.”

Ch’i-ch’iao  called  out  loudly,  “If  he  can  react  like  a  human  being,  it

won’t be so bad.”

Her  sister-in-law  was  so  frightened  she  covered  Ch’i-ch’iao’s  mouth.

“Don’t, Ku-nai-nai!10 Sick people feel bad to hear such talk.”

“He feels bad and how do I feel?”
Her  sister-in-law  said,  “Is  Ku-yeh  still  suffering  from  the  soft  bone

illness?”

“Isn’t  that  enough  to  bear,  without  further  complications?  Here  the
whole  family  avoids  mentioning  the  word  tuberculosis,  actually  it’s  just
tuberculosis of the bones.”

“Does he sit up for a while sometimes?”
Ch’i-ch’iao  started  to  chuckle.  “Huh  huh!  Sit  up  and  the  spine  slides

down, not even as tall as my three-year-old, to look at.”

Her  sister-in-law  ran  out  of  comforting  words  for  the  moment  and  all
three were speechless. Ch’i-ch’iao suddenly stamped her feet, saying, “Go,
go,  you  people.  Every  time  you  come  I  have  to  review  once  more  in  my
mind  how  everything  has  led  to  this,  I  can’t  stand  the  agitation.  Go  away
quick.”

Ts’ao Ta-nien said, “Listen to a word from me, Sister. Having your own
family around makes it a little better anyhow, and not just now when you’re
unhappy.  Even  when  your  day  of  independence  comes,  the  Chiangs  are  a
big  clan,  the  elders  keep  browbeating  people  with  high-sounding  words,
and those of your generation and the next are like wolves and tigers, every
one of them, not a single one easy to deal with. You need help too for your
own sake. There will be times aplenty when you could use your brother and
nephews.”

Ch’i-ch’iao made a spitting noise. “I’d be out of luck indeed if I had to
rely on your help. I saw through you long ago—if you could fight them, the
more credit to you and you’d come to me for money; if you’re no match for
them you’d just topple over to their side. The sight of mandarins scares you
out of your wits anyway: you’ll just pull in your neck and leave me to my
fate.”

Ta-nien  flushed  and  laughed  sardonically.  “Wait  till  the  money  is  in
your hands. It will not be too late then to keep your brother from getting a
share.”

“Then why bother me when you know it’s not yet in my hands?”
“So we’re wrong to come all this distance to see you!” he said. “Come
on, let’s go. To be perfectly frank though, even if I use a bit of your money
it’s  only  fair.  If  I’d  been  greedy  for  wedding  gifts  and  asked  for  another
several  hundred  taels  of  silver  from  the  Chiangs  and  sold  you  for  a
concubine, you’d have been sold.”

“Isn’t a wife better than a concubine? Kites go farther on a longer string,

you have big hopes yet.”

Ta-nien was just going to retort when his wife cut in, “Now hold your
tongue. You’ll still meet in days to come. One day when Ku-nai-nai thinks
of you she’ll know she only has this one brother.”

Ta-nien hustled her into tidying the box set, picked it up, and started out.
“What do I care?” Ch’i-ch’iao said. “When I have money I won’t have
to worry about your not coming, only how to get rid of you.” Despite her
harsh  words  she  could  not  hold  back  the  sobs  that  got  louder  and  louder.
This quarrel had made it possible for her to release the frustrations pent up
all morning long.

Her sister-in-law, seeing that she was evidently clinging to them a little,
succeeded  by  cajoling  and  lecturing  in  pacifying  her  brother,  and  at  the
same time, with her arm around her, led her to the carved pearwood couch,
set her down, and patiently reasoned with her, until she gradually dried her
tears.  The  three  now  talked  about  everyday  affairs.  It  was  more  or  less
peaceful in the north, with business as usual at the Ts’aos’ sesame oil shop.
Their  present  trip  to  Shanghai  had  to  do  with  their  future  son-in-law,  a
bookkeeper who happened to be in Hupeh when the revolution started. He
had left the place with his employer and finally come to Shanghai. So Ta-
nien had brought his daughter here to be married, visiting his sister on the
side. Ta-nien asked after all the Chiangs of the house and wanted to pay his
respects to Old Mistress.

“Just as well that you don’t see her,” said Ch’i-ch’iao. “I was just being

mad at her.”

Ta-nien and his wife were both startled.
“How can I help myself?” Ch’i-ch’iao said. “The whole family treading
me  down,  if  I’d  been  easy  to  bully  I’d  have  been  trampled  to  death  long
ago. As it is, I’m full of aches and pains from anger.”

“Do you still smoke, Miss?” her sister-in-law said. “Opium is still better
than  any  other  medicine  for  soothing  the  liver  and  composing  the  nerves.

Be  sure  that you take  good care  of yourself, Miss,  we’re not  around, who
else is there to look after you?”

Ch’i-ch’iao went through her trunks to take out lengths of silks of new
designs  to  give  to  her  sister-in-law  and  also  a  pair  of  gold  bracelets
weighing four taels, a pair of carnelian hairpins the shape of lotus pods, and
a  quilting  of  silk  fluff.  She  had  for  each  niece  a  gold  ear-spoon  and  each
nephew  a  miniature  gold  ingot  or  a  sable  hat,  and  handed  her  brother  an
enameled  gold  watch  shaped  like  a  cicada.  Her  brother  and  sister-in-law
hastened to thank her.

“You  didn’t  come  at  the  right  moment,”  Ch’i-ch’iao  said.  “When  we
were just about to leave Peking, what we couldn’t take was all given to the
amahs and slave girls, several trunkfuls they got for nothing.”

They  looked  embarrassed  at  this.  Taking  their  leave,  her  sister-in-law
said, “When we’ve got our daughter off our hands, we’ll come and see Ku-
nai-nai again.”

“Just as well if you don’t,” Ch’i-ch’iao said, smiling. “I can’t afford it.”
When they got out of the Chiangs’ house her sister-in-law said, “How is
it this ku-nai-nai of ours has changed so? Before she was married she may
have  been  a  bit  proud  and  talked  a  little  too  much.  Even  later,  when  we
went  to  see  her,  she  had  more  of  a  temper  but  there  was  still  a  limit.  She
was not silly as she is now, sane enough one minute and the next minute off
again, and altogether disagreeable.”

Ch’i-ch’iao stood in the room holding her elbows and watched the two
slave  girls,  Little  Shuang  and  Ch’iang-yün,  carrying  the  trunks  between
them and stacking them back one by one. The things of the past came back
again:  the  sesame  oil  shop  over  the  cobbled  street,  the  blackened  greasy
counter,  the  wooden  spoons  standing  in  the  buckets  of  sesame  butter  and
iron spoons of all sizes strung up above the oil jars. Insert the funnel in the
customer’s bottle. One big spoon plus two small spoons just make a bottle
—one  and  a  half  catties.  Counts  as  one  catty  and  four  ounces  if  it’s
somebody she knows. Sometimes she went marketing too, in a blouse and
pants of blue linen trimmed with mirror-bright black silk. Across the thick
row  of  brass  hooks  from  which  pork  dangled  she  saw  Ch’ao-lu  of  the
butcher shop. Ch’ao-lu was always after her, calling her Miss Ts’ao, and on
rare occasions Little Miss Ch’iao,”11 and she would give the rack of hooks a
slap that sent all the empty hooks swinging across to poke him in the eye.
Ch’ao-lu plucked a piece of raw fat a foot wide off the hook and threw it

down  hard  on  the  block,  a  warm  odor  rushing  to  her  face,  the  smell  of
sticky dead flesh… she frowned. On the bed lay her husband, that lifeless
body…

A gust of wind came in the window and blew against the long mirror in
the scrollwork lacquered frame until it rattled against the wall. Ch’i-ch’iao
pressed the mirror down with both hands. The green bamboo curtain and a
green  and  gold  landscape  scroll  reflected  in  the  mirror  went  on  swinging
back and forth in the wind—one could get dizzy watching it for long. When
she  looked  again  the  green  bamboo  curtain  had  faded,  the  green  and  gold
landscape was replaced by a photograph of her deceased husband, and the
woman in the mirror was also ten years older.

Last year she wore mourning for her husband and this year her mother-
in-law had passed away. Now her husband’s uncle, Ninth Old Master, was
formally  invited  to  come  and  divide  the  property  among  the  survivors.
Today was the focal point of all her imaginings since she had married into
the  house  of  Chiang.  All  these  years  she  had  worn  the  golden  cangue  but
never even got to gnaw at the edge of the gold. It would be different from
now  on.  In  her  white  lacquered  silk  blouse  and  black  skirt  she  looked
rouged, from the eyes rubbed red to the feverish cheek-bones. She lifted her
hand to touch her face. It was flushed but the rest of her body was so cold
she was actually trembling. She told Ch’iang-yün to pour her a cup of tea.
(Little  Shuang  had  been  married  long  ago;  Ch’iang-yün  was  also  mated
with a page.) The tea she drank flowed heavily into her chest cavity and her
heart  jumped,  thumping  in  the  hot  tea.  She  sat  down  with  her  back  to  the
mirror  and  asked  Ch’iang-yün,  “All  this  time  Ninth  Old  Master  has  been
here  this  afternoon,  he’s  just  been  going  over  the  accounts  with  Secretary
Ma?”

Ch’iang-yün answered yes.
“Eldest  Master  and  Eldest  Mistress.  Third  Master  and  Third  Mistress,

none of them is around?”

Ch’iang-yün again answered yes.
“Who else did he go to see?”
“Just took a turn in the schoolroom,” said Ch’iang-yün.
“At  least  our  Master  Pai’s  studies  could  bear  checking  into…  The
trouble  with  the  child  this  year  is  what  happened  to  his  father  and
grandmother, one after the other. If he still feels like studying, he’s born of
beasts.” She finished her tea and told Ch’iang-yün to go down and see if the

people of the eldest and third branches were all in the parlor, so she would
not be too early and be laughed at for seeming eager. It happened that the
eldest branch had also sent a slave girl to find out, who came face to face
with Ch’iang-yün.

Ch’i-ch’iao  finally came  downstairs slowly, gracefully. A foreign-style
dining table of ebony polished like a mirror was set up in the parlor for the
occasion.  Ninth  Old  Master  occupied  one  side  by  himself,  the  account
books with blue cloth covers and plumred labels heaped before him along
with  a  melonribbed  teacup.  Around  him  besides  Secretary  Ma  were  the
specially  invited  kung  ch’in,  relatives  no  closer  to  one  than  to  the  other,
serving more or less in the capacity of assistant judges. Eldest Master and
Third  Master  represented  their  respective  branches,  but  Second  Master
having died, his branch was represented by Second Mistress. Chi-tse, who
knew  very  well  that  this  day  of  reckoning  bode  no  good  for  him,  arrived
last. But once there he never showed any anxiety or depression: that same
plump  red  smile  was  still  on  his  cheeks  and  in  his  eyes  still  that  bit  of
dashing impatience.

Ninth Old Master gave a cough and made a brief report on the Chiangs’
finances. Leafing through the account books, he read out the main holdings
of land and houses and the annual incomes from these. Ch’i-ch’iao leaned
forward with hands locked tight over her stomach, trying hard to explain to
herself  every  sentence  he  uttered  and  match  it  with  the  results  of  her  past
investigations.  The  houses  in  Tsingtao,  the  houses  in  Tientsin,  the  land  in
the  hometown,  the  land  outside  Peking,  the  houses  in  Shanghai…  Third
Master had borrowed too much from the general accounts and for too long.
Apart  from  his  share,  now  canceled  out,  he  still  owed  sixty  thousand
dollars, but the eldest and second branches had to let it go at that since he
had  nothing.  The  only  house  he  owned,  a  foreign-style  building  with  a
garden bought for a concubine, was already mortgaged. Then there was just
the jewelry that Old Mistress had brought with her as a bride to be divided
evenly  among  the  three  brothers.  Chi-tse’s  share  could  not  very  well  be
confiscated, being mementos left by his mother.

Ch’i-ch’iao  suddenly  cried  out,  “Ninth  Old  Master,  this  is  too  hard  on

us.”

The parlor had been dead quiet before, now the silence became a sandy
rustle  that  sawed  straight  into  the  ears  like  the  damaged  sound  track  of  a
movie grating rustily on. Ninth Old Master opened his eyes wide to look at

her. “What? You wouldn’t even let him have the bit of jewelry his mother
left?”

“  ’Even  brothers  settle  their  accounts  openly,’  ”  Ch’i-ch’iao  quoted.
“Eldest  Brother  and  Sister-in-law  say  nothing,  but  I  have  to  toughen  my
skin  and  speak  out  this  once.  I  can’t  compare  with  Eldest  Brother  and
Sister-in-law. If the one we lost were able to go out and be a mandarin for a
couple  of  terms  and  save  some  money,  I’d  be  glad  to  be  generous,  too—
what  if  we  cancel  all  the  old  accounts?  Only  that  one  of  ours  was  pitiful,
ailing and groaning all his life, never earned a copper coin. Left us widow
and orphans who’re counting on just this small fixed sum to live on. I’m a
crab  without  legs  and  Ch’angpai  is  not  yet  fourteen,  with  plenty  of  hard
days ahead.” Her tears came down as she spoke.

“What  do  you  want  then  if  you  may  have  your  way?”  said  Ninth  Old

Master.

“It’s not for me to decide,” she said, sobbing. “I’m only begging Ninth

Old Master to settle it for me.”

Chi-tse,  cold-faced,  said  nothing.  The  whole  roomful  of  people  felt  it
was  not  for  them  to  speak.  Ninth  Old  Master,  unable  to  keep  down  a
bellyful of fire, snorted, “I’d make a suggestion, only I’m afraid you won’t
like  it.  The  second  branch  has  land  and  nobody  to  look  after  it,  the  third
branch has a man but no land. I’d have Third Master look after it for you for
a consideration, whatever you see fit, only you may not want him.”

Ch’i-ch’iao laughed sardonically. “I’d have it your way, only I’m afraid
the  dead  one  will  not.  Come,  somebody!  Ch’iang-yün,  go  and  get  Master
Pai for me. Ch’ang-pai, what a hard life your father had! Born with ailments
all  over,  went  through  life  like  a  wretch,  and  for  what?  Never  even  had  a
single comfortable day. In the end he left you, all there is of his bone and
blood, and people still won’t let you be, there’re a thousand designs on your
property. Ch’ang-pai, it’s your father’s fault that he dragged himself around
with  all  his  illnesses,  bullied  when  he  was  alive,  to  have  his  widow  and
orphan  bullied  when  he’s  dead.  I  don’t  matter,  how  many  more  scores  of
years  can  I  live?  At  worst  I’d  go  and  explain  this  before  Old  Mistress’s
spirit tablet and kill myself in protest. But Ch’ang-pai, you’re so young, you
still have your life to live even if there’s nothing to eat or drink except the
northwest wind!”

Ninth Old Master was so angry he slapped the table. “I wash my hands
of this! It was you people who begged and kowtowed to make me come. Do

you  think  I  like  to  go  looking  for  trouble?”  He  stood  up,  kicked  the  chair
over and, without waiting to be helped out of the room, strode out of sight
in a gust of wind.

The others looked one another in the face and slipped out one by one.
Only Secretary Ma was left behind busy tidying up the account books. He
thought that, with everybody gone and Second Mistress sitting there alone
beating her breast and wailing, it would be embarrassing if he just walked
off, and so he went up to her, bowing repeatedly, holding his own hands and
moving  them  up  and  down  in  obeisance,  and  calling,  “Second  Mistress!
Second  Mistress!…  Second  Mistress!”  Ch’i-ch’iao  just  covered  her  face
with  a  sleeve.  Secretary  Ma  could  not  very  well  pull  her  hand  away.
Perspiring in despair, he took off his black satin skullcap to fan himself.

The  awkward  situation  lasted  for  a  few  days,  then  the  property  was
divided  quietly  according  to  the  original  plans.  The  widow  and  orphans
were still taken advantage of.

Ch’i-ch’iao took her son Ch’ang-pai and daughter Ch’ang-an and rented
another  house  to  live  in,  and  seldom  saw  the  Chiangs’  other  branches.
Several  months  later  Chiang  Chi-tse  suddenly  came.  When  the  amah
announced the visit upstairs, Ch’i-ch’iao was secretly worried that she had
offended him that day at the family conference over the division of property
and wondered what he was going to do about it. But “an army comes and
generals  fend  it  off,”  so  why  should  she  be  afraid  of  him?  She  tied  on  a
black  skirt  of  iron-thread  gauze  under  the  Buddha-blue  solid  gauze  jacket
she  was  wearing  and  came  downstairs.  When  Chi-tse  got  up  all  smiles  to
give his best regards to Second Sister-in-law, and asked if Master Pai was in
the schoolroom and if Little Miss An’s ringworm was all cured, Ch’i-ch’iao
suspected  he  was  here  to  borrow  money.  Doubly  on  guard,  she  sat  down
and said, smiling, “You’ve gained weight again lately, Third Brother.”

“I seem like a man without a thing on his mind,” Chi-tse said, smiling.
“Well, ’A blessed man need never be busy.’ You’re never one to worry,”

she said, smiling.

“I’d have fewer worries than ever after I’d sold my landed property,” he

said, smiling.

“You mean the house you mortgaged? You want to sell it?”
“Quite a lot of thought went into it when it was built and I loved some
of the fixtures; of course I wouldn’t want to part with it. But later, as you
know, land got expensive over there, so the year before last I tore it down

and  built  in  its  place  a  row  of  houses.  But  it  was  really  too  much  bother
collecting rent from house to house, dealing with those tenants; so I thought
I’d get rid of the property just for the sake of peace and quiet.”

Ch’i-ch’iao said to herself, “How grand we sound! Still acting the rich

young master in front of me when I know all about you!”

Although  he  was  not  complaining  of  poverty  to  her,  any  mention  of
money transactions seemed to lead them onto dangerous ground, and so she
changed  the  subject.  “How  is  Third  Sister?  Her  kidneys  haven’t  been
bothering her lately?”

“I haven’t seen her for some time, either,” Chi-tse said, smiling.
“What is this? Have you quarreled?”
“We haven’t quarreled either all this time,” he said, smiling. “Exchange
a few words when we have to but that’s also rare. No time to quarrel and no
mood for it.”

“You’re exaggerating. I for one don’t believe it.”
He rested his elbows on the arms of the rattan chair, locking his fingers

to shade his eyes, and sighed deeply.

“Unless  it’s  because  you  play  around  too  much  outside.  You’re  in  the
wrong and still sighing away as if you were wronged. There’s not one good
man among you Chiangs!” she said, smiling, and lifted her round white fan
as if to strike him. He moved his interlocked fingers downward with both
thumbs pressed on his lips and the forefingers slowly stroking the bridge of
his  nose,  and  his  eyes  appeared  all  the  brighter.  The  irises  were  the  black
pebbles at the bottom of a bowl of narcissus, covered with cold water and
expressionless. It was impossible to tell what he was thinking. “I must beat
you,” she said.

A bubble of mirth came up in his eyes. “Go ahead, beat me.”
She  was  about  to  hit  him,  snatched  back  her  hand,  and  then  again
mustered  her  strength,  saying,  “I’d  really  beat  you!”  She  swung  her  arm
downward,  but  the  descending  fan  remained  in  mid  air  as  she  started  to
giggle.

He raised a shoulder toward her, smiling. “You’d better hit me just once.

As it is, my bones are itching for punishment.”
She hid the fan behind her, chuckling.
Chi-tse  moved  his  chair  around  and  sat  facing  the  wall,  leaning  back

heavily with both hands over his eyes, and heaved another sigh.

Ch’i-ch’iao  chewed  on  her  fan  handle  and  looked  at  him  from  the
corners  of  her  eyes.  “What’s  the  matter  with  you  today?  Can’t  stand  the
heat?”

“You  wouldn’t  know.”  After  a  long  pause  he  said  in  a  low  voice,
enunciating  each  word  distinctly.  “You  know  why  I  can’t  get  on  with  the
one at home, why I played so hard outside and squandered all my money.
Whom do you think it’s all for?”

Ch’i-ch’iao was a bit frightened. She walked a long way off and leaned
on  the  mantelpiece,  the  expression  on  her  face  slowly  changing.  Chi-tse
followed  her.  Her  head  was  bent  and  her  right  elbow  rested  on  the
mantelpiece.  In  her  right  hand  was  her  fan  whose  apricot-yellow  tassel
trailed  down  over  her  forehead.  He  stood  before  her  and  whispered,
“Second Sister-in-law!… Ch’i-ch’iao!”

Ch’i-ch’iao turned her face away and smiled blandly. “As if I’d believe

you!”

So he also walked away. “That’s right. How could you believe me? Ever
since you came to our house I couldn’t stay there a minute, only wanted to
get out. I was never so wild before you came; later it was to avoid you that I
stayed  out.  After  I  was  married  to  Lan-hsien,  I  played  harder  than  ever
because aside from avoiding you I had to avoid her too. When I did see you,
scarcely  two  sentences  were  exchanged  before  I  lost  my  temper—how
could  you  know  the  pain  in  my  heart?  When  you  were  good  to  me,  I  felt
still worse—I had to control myself—I couldn’t ruin you just like that. So
many people at home, all watching us. If people should know, it wouldn’t
matter  too  much  for  me,  I  was  a  man,  but  what  was  going  to  happen  to
you?”

Ch’i-ch’iao’s  hands  trembled  until  the  yellow  tassel  on  the  fan  handle

rustled against her forehead.

“Whether you believe it or not makes little difference,” he said. “What
if you believe it? Half our lives are over anyway, it’s no use talking about it.
I’m just asking you to understand the way I felt, then it wouldn’t be unfair
that I suffered so much on your account.”

Ch’i-ch’iao  bowed  her  head,  basking  in  glory,  in  the  soft  music  of  his
voice  and  the  delicate  pleasure  of  this  occasion.  So  many  years  now,  she
had  been  playing  hide-and-seek  with  him  and  never  could  get  close,  and
there had still been a day like this in store for her. True, half a lifetime had
gone  by—the  flower-years  of  her  youth.  Life  is  so  devious  and

unreasonable.  Why  had  she  married  into  the  Chiang  family?  For  money?
No, for meeting Chi-tse, because it was fated that she should be in love with
him. She lifted her face  slightly.  He  was  standing  in  front of her with  flat
hands  closed  on  her  fan  and  his  cheek  pressed  against  it.  He  was  also  ten
years older, but he was after all the same person. Could he be lying to her?
He wanted her money—the money she had sold her life for? The very idea
enraged  her.  Even  if  she  had  him  wrong  there,  could  he  have  suffered  as
much  for  her  as  she  did  for  him?  Now  that  she  had  finally  given  up  all
thoughts of love he was here again to provoke her. She hated him. He was
still looking at her. His eyes—after ten years he was still the same person.
Even if he was lying to her, wouldn’t it be better to find out a little later?
Even if she knew very well it was lies, he was such a good actor, wouldn’t
it be almost real?

No,  she  could  not  give  this  rascal  any  hold  on  her.  The  Chiangs  were
very  shrewd;  she  might  not  be  able  to  keep  her  money.  She  had  to  prove
first whether he really meant it. She took a grip on herself, looked outside
the door, gasped under her breath, “Somebody there!”, and rushed out. She
went to the amahs’ quarters to tell P’an Ma to get the tea things for Third
Master.

Coming  back  to  the  room,  she  frowned,  saying,  “So  hateful  —amah
peering outside the door, turned and ran the minute she saw me. I went after
her  and  stopped  her.  Who  knows  what  stories  they’d  make  up  if  we’d
talked,  however  briefly,  with  the  door  shut.  No  peace  even  living  by
yourself.”

P’an Ma brought the tea things and chilled sour plum juice. Ch’i-ch’iao
used her chopsticks to pick the shredded roses and green plums off the top
of the honey layer cake for Chi-tse. “I remember you don’t like the red and
green shreds,” she said.

He just smiled, unable to say anything with people around.
Ch’i-ch’iao  seemed  to  be  making  conversation.  “How  are  you  getting

on with the houses you were going to sell?”

Chi-tse answered as he ate, “Some people offered eighty-five thousand;

I haven’t decided yet.

Ch’i-ch’iao paused to reflect. “The district is good.”
“Everybody  is  against  my  getting  rid  of  the  property,  says  the  price  is

still going up.”

Ch’i-ch’iao asked for more particulars, then said, “A pity I haven’t got

that much cash at hand, otherwise I’d like to buy it.”

“Actually there’s no hurry about my property, it’s your land in our part
of  the  country  that  should  be  gotten  rid  of  before  long.  Ever  since  we
became  a  republic  it’s  been  one  war  after  another,  never  missed  a  single
year. The area is so messed up and with all the squeeze—the collectors and
bookkeepers and the local powers—how much do we get when it comes to
our  turn,  even  in  a  year  of  good  harvest?  Not  to  say  these  last  few  years
when it’s either flood or drought.”

Ch’i-ch’iao  pondered.  “I’ve  done  some  calculating  and  kept  putting  it
off. If only I’d sold it, then I wouldn’t be caught short just when I want to
buy your houses.”

“If  you  want  to  sell  that  land  it  had  better  be  now.  I  heard  Hopeh  and

Shantung are going to be at war again.”

“Who am I to sell it to in such a hurry?”
He said after a moment of hesitation, “All right, I’ll see if I can find out

for you.”

Ch’i-ch’iao lifted her eyebrows and said, smiling, “Go on! You and that

pack of foxes and dogs you run with, who is there that’s halfway reliable?”

Chi-tse dipped a dumpling that he had bitten open into the little dish of
vinegar,  taking  his  time,  and  mentioned  a  couple  of  reliable  names.  Ch’i-
ch’iao  then  seriously  questioned  him  in  detail  and  he  set  his  answers  out
tidily, evidently well prepared.

Ch’i-ch’iao  continued  to  smile  but  her  mouth  felt  dry,  her  upper  lip
stuck on her gum and would not come down. She raised the lidded teacup to
suck a mouthful of tea, licked her lips, and suddenly jumped up with a set
face  and  threw  her  fan  at  his  head.  The  round  fan  went  wheeling  through
the air, knocked his shoulder as he ducked slightly to the left, and upset his
glass. The sour plum juice spilled all over him.

“You  want  me  to  sell  land  to  buy  your  houses?  You  want  me  to  sell
land? Once the money goes through your hands what can I count on? You’d
cheat me—you’d cheat me with such talk —you take me for a fool—” She
leaned  across  the  table  to  hit  him,  but  P’an  Ma  held  her  in  a  desperate
embrace  and  started  to  yell.  Ch’iang-yün  and  the  others  came  running,
pressed her down between them, pleaded noisily. Ch’i-ch’iao struggled and
barked orders at the same time, but with a sinking heart she quite realized
she was being foolish, too foolish, she was making a spectacle of herself.

Chi-tse  took  off  his  drenched  white  lacquered  silk  gown.  P’an  Ma
brought a hot towel to wipe it for him. He paid her no attention but, before
sauntering out the door with his gown on his arm, he said to Ch’iang-yün,
“When Master Pai finishes his lesson for the day, tell him to get a doctor for
his mother.” Ch’iang-yün, who was too frightened by the proceedings not to
say  yes,  received  a  resounding  slap  on  the  face  from  Ch’i-ch’iao.  Chi-tse
was  gone.  The  slave  girls  and  amahs  also  hurriedly  left  her  after  being
scolded. Drop by drop, the sour plum juice trickled down the table, keeping
time like a water clock at night—one drip, another drip—the first watch of
the night, the second watch—one year, a hundred years. So long, this silent
moment.  Ch’i-ch’iao  stood  there,  supporting  her  head  with  a  hand.  In
another second she had turned around and was hurrying upstairs. Lifting her
skirt, she half climbed and half stumbled her way up, continually bumping
against  the  dingy  wall  of  green  plaster.  Her  Buddha-blue  jacket  was
smudged  with  patches  of  pale  chalk.  She  wanted  another  glimpse  of  him
from the upstairs window. No matter what, she had loved him before. Her
love had given her endless pain. Just this alone should make him worthy of
her continuing regard. How many times had she strained to suppress herself
until all her muscles and bones and gums ached with sharp pain. Today it all
had been her fault. It wasn’t as if she did not know he was no good. If she
wanted him she had to pretend ignorance and put up with his badness. Why
had she exposed him? Isn’t life just like this and no more than this? In the
end what is real and what is false?

She  reached  the  window  and  pulled  aside  the  dark  green  foreign-style
curtains fringed with little velvet balls. Chi-tse was just going out the alley,
his gown slung over his arm. Like a flock of white pigeons, the wind on that
sunny day fluttered inside his white silk blouse and trousers. It penetrated
everywhere, flapping its wings.

A  curtain  of  ice-cold  pearls  seemed  to  hang  in  front  of  Ch’i-ch’iao’s
eyes. A hot wind would press the curtain tight on her face, and after being
sucked  back  by  the  wind  for  a  moment,  it  would  muffle  all  her  head  and
face  before  she  could  draw  her  breath.  In  such  alternately  hot  and  cold
waves her tears flowed.

The  tiny  shrunken  image  of  a  policeman  reflected  faintly  in  the  top
corner of the window glass ambled by swinging his arms. A ricksha quietly
ran over the policeman. A little boy with his long gown tucked up into his
trouser waist ran kicking a ball out of the edge of the glass. The postman in

green  riding  a  bicycle  superimposed  his  image  on  the  policeman  as  he
streaked  by.  All  ghosts,  ghosts  of  many  years  ago  or  the  unborn  of  many
years hence… What is real and what is false?

The autumn passed, then the winter. Ch’i-ch’iao was out of touch with
reality, feeling a little lost despite the usual flares of temper which prompted
her to beat slave girls and change cooks. Her brother and his wife came to
Shanghai  to  see  her  twice  and  stayed  each  time  not  longer  than  ten  days,
because in the end they could not stand her nagging, even though she would
give  them  parting  presents.  Her  nephew  Ts’ao  Ch’un-hsi  came  to  town  to
look for work and stayed at her house. Though none too bright, this youth
knew  his  place.  Ch’i-ch’iao’s  son  Ch’ang-pai  was  now  fourteen,  and  her
daughter Ch’ang-an about a year younger, but they looked only about seven
or eight, being small and thin. During the New Year holidays the boy wore
a bright blue padded gown of heavy silk and the girl a bright green brocade
padded  gown,  both  so  thickly  wadded  that  their  arms  stuck  out  straight.
Standing side by side, both looked like paper dolls, with their flat thin white
faces. One day after lunch Ch’i-ch’iao was not up yet. Ts’ao Ch’un-hsi kept
the  brother  and  sister  company  throwing  dice.  Ch’ang-an  had  lost  all  her
New Year money gifts and still would not stop playing. Ch’ang-pai swept
all the copper coins on the table toward himself and said, smiling, “I won’t
play with you any more.”

“We’ll play with candied lotus seeds,” Ch’ang-an said.
“The  sugar  will  stain  your  clothes  if  you  keep  them  in  your  pocket,”

Ch’un-hsi said.

“Watermelon  seeds  will  do,  there’s  a  can  of  them  on  top  of  the
wardrobe,”  said  Ch’ang-an.  So  she  moved  a  small  tea  table  over  and
stepped on a chair to get on it and reach up.

Ch’un-hsi  was  so  nervous  he  called  out,  “Don’t  you  fall  down,  Little
Miss An, I can’t shoulder the blame.” The words were scarcely out of his
mouth when Ch’ang-an suddenly tipped backwards and would have toppled
down  if  he  had  not  caught  her.  Ch’ang-pai  clapped  his  hands,  laughing,
while Ch’un-hsi, though he muttered curses, also could not help laughing.
All three of them dissolved in mirth. Lifting her down, Ch’un-hsi suddenly
saw  in  the  mirror  of  the  rosewood  wardrobe  Ch’i-ch’iao  standing  in  the
doorway  with  her  arms  akimbo,  her  hair  not  yet  done.  Somewhat  taken
aback,  he  quickly  set  Ch’ang-an  down  and  turned  around  to  greet  her,
“Aunt is up.”

Ch’i-ch’iao  rushed  over  and  pushed  Ch’ang-an  behind  her.  Ch’ang-an
lost her balance and fell down but Ch’i-ch’iao continued shielding her with
her own body while she cried harshly to Ch’un-hsi, “You wolf-hearted, dog-
lunged  creature,  I’ll  fix  you!  I  treat  you  to  three  teas  and  six  meals,  you
wolf-hearted, dog-lunged thing, in what way have I not done right by you,
and yet you’d take advantage of my daughter? You think I can’t make out
what’s in your wolf’s heart and dog’s lungs? Don’t you go around thinking
if you teach my daughter bad things I’ll have to hold my nose and marry her
to you, so you can take over our property. A fool like you doesn’t look to
me as if he’d think of such a trick, it must be your parents who taught you,
guiding you by the hand. Those two wolf-hearted, dog-lunged, ungrateful,
old addled eggs, they are determined to get my money. When one scheme
fails another comes up.”

Ch’un-hsi,  staring  white-eyed  in  his  anger,  was  just  about  to  defend
himself  when  Ch’i-ch’iao  said,  “Aren’t  you  ashamed?  You’d  still  answer
back? Get out of my sight right away, don’t wait for my men to drive you
out with rods.” So saying, she pushed her son and daughter out and then left
the room herself, supported by a slave girl. Being a quick-tempered youth,
Ch’un-hsi rolled up his bedding and left the Chiang house forthwith.

Ch’i-ch’iao  returned  to  the  living  room  and  lay  down  on  the  opium
couch. With the velvet curtains drawn it was dark in the room. Only when
the wind came in through the crevices and moved the curtains was a bit of
sky  hazily  visible  under  their  hems  fringed  with  green  velvet  balls.  There
was just the opium lamp and the dim light of the stove burning red. Having
had a fright, Ch’ang-an sat stunned on a little stool by the stove.

“Come over here,” Ch’i-ch’iao said.
Ch’ang-an didn’t go over right away, thinking her mother would hit her.
She  fiddled  with  the  laundry  hung  on  the  tin  screen  around  the  stove  and
turned over a cotton undershirt with little pink checks, saying, “It’s almost
burned.” The shirt gave out a hot smell of cloth fuzz.

But Ch’i-ch’iao, not quite in the mood to beat or scold her, merely went
over everything and added, “You’ll be thirteen this year after the New Year,
you  should  have  more  sense.  Although  Cousin  is  no  outsider,  men  are  all
rotten  without  exception.  You  should  know  how  to  take  care  of  yourself.
Who’s  not  after  your  money?”  A  gust  of  wind  passed,  showing  the  cold
white sky between the velvet balls on the curtains, puncturing with a row of
little  holes  the  warm  darkness  in  the  room.  The  flame  of  the  opium  lamp

ducked and the shadows on Ch’i-ch’iao’s face seemed a shade deeper. She
suddenly sat up to whisper, “Men… leave them alone! Who’s not after your
money? Your mother’s bit of money didn’t come easy nor is it easy to keep.
When  it  comes  to  you  two,  I  can’t  look  on  and  see  you  get  cheated.  I’m
telling you to be more on guard from now on, you hear?”

“I heard,” Ch’ang-an said with her head down.
One  of  Ch’i-ch’iao’s  feet  was  going  to  sleep,  and  she  reached  over  to
pinch  it.  Just  for  a  moment  a  gentle  memory  stirred  in  her  eyes.  She
remembered a man who was after her money.

Her  bound  feet  had  been  padded  with  cotton  wool  to  simulate  the
reformed  feet,  half  let  out.  As  she  looked  at  them,  something  occurred  to
her and she said with a cynical laugh, “You may say yes, but how do I know
if you’re sensible or silly at heart? You’re this big already, and with a pair
of  big  feet,  where  can’t  you  go?  Even  if  I  could  control  you,  I  wouldn’t
have the energy to watch you all day long. Actually at thirteen it’s already
too late for foot-binding, it is my fault not to have seen to it earlier. We’ll
start right now, there’s still time.”

Ch’ang-an  was  momentarily  at  a  loss  for  an  answer,  but  the  amahs
standing around said, smiling, “Small feet are not fashionable any more. To
have  her  feet  bound  will  perhaps  mean  trouble  when  the  time  comes  for
Little Miss to get engaged.”

“What nonsense! I’m not worried about my daughter having no takers;
you people needn’t bother to worry for me. If nobody really wants her and
she has to be kept all her life, I can afford it too.”

She actually started to bind her daughter’s feet, and Ch’ang-an howled
with  great  pain.  By  then  even  women  in  conservative  families  like  the
Chiangs were letting out their bound feet, to say nothing of girls whose feet
had never been bound. Everybody talked about Ch’ang-an’s feet as a great
joke.  After  binding  them  for  a  year  or  so,  Ch’i-ch’iao’s  momentary
enthusiasm  had  waned  and  relatives  persuaded  her  to  let  them  loose,  but
Ch’ang-an’s feet would never be entirely the same again.

All  the  children  of  the  Chiangs’  eldest  and  third  branches  went  to
foreign-style schools. Ch’i-ch’iao, always purposely competing with them,
also  wanted  to  enroll  Ch’ang-pai  in  one.  Aside  from  playing  mahjong  for
small stakes, Ch’ang-pai liked only to go to amateur Peking opera clubs. He
was working hard day and night training his singing voice, and was afraid
that  school  would  interfere  with  his  lessons,  so  he  refused  to  go.  In

desperation  Ch’i-ch’iao  sent  Ch’ang-an  instead  to  the  Hu  Fan  Middle
School  for  girls  and  through  connections  got  her  into  one  of  the  higher
classes.  Ch’ang-an  changed  into  a  uniform  of  rough  blue  “patriotic  cloth”
and in less than six months her complexion turned ruddy and her wrists and
ankles  grew  thicker.  The  boarders  were  supposed  to  have  their  clothes
washed  by  a  laundry  concession.  Ch’ang-an  could  not  remember  her  own
numbers  and  often  lost  pillowcases,  handkerchiefs,  and  other  little  items,
and Ch’i-ch’iao insisted on going to speak to the principal about it. One day
when  she  was  home  for  holidays,  in  going  over  her  things  Ch’i-ch’iao
found a sheet was missing. She fell into a thunderous rage and threatened to
go to the school herself the next day to demand satisfaction. Ch’ang-an in
dismay tried just once to stop her and Ch’i-ch’iao scolded, “You good-for-
nothing  wastrel.  Your  mother’s  money  is  not  money  to  you.  Did  your
mother’s money come easy? What dowry will I have to give you when you
get married? Whatever I give you will be given in vain.”

Ch’ang-an dared not say anything in reply and cried all night. She could
not  bear  to  lose  face  like  this  in  front  of  her  schoolmates.  To  a  fourteen-
year-old that seems of the greatest importance. How was she to face people
from now on  if  her mother  went and made  a scene?  She would  rather die
than  go  to  school  again.  Her  friends,  the  music  teacher  she  liked,  they
would soon forget there was such a girl who had come for half a year and
left  quietly  for  no  reason.  A  clean  break—she  felt  this  sacrifice  was  a
beautiful desolate gesture.

At midnight she crawled out of bed and put a hand outside the window.
Pitch-dark,  was  it  raining?  No  raindrops.  She  took  a  harmonica  from  the
side  of  her  pillow  and  half  squatted,  half  sat  on  the  floor,  blowing  it
stealthily. Hesitantly the little tune of “Long, Long Ago” twirled and spread
out  in  the  huge  night.  People  must  not  hear.  Held  down  strictly,  the  thin,
wailing music of the harmonica kept trailing off and on like a baby sobbing.
Short of breath, she stopped for a while. Through the window the moon had
come  out  of  the  clouds.  A  dark  gray  sky  dotted  sparsely  with  stars  and  a
blurred chip of a moon, like a lithographed picture. White clouds steaming
up underneath and a faint halo over the street lamp showing among the top
branches  of  a  tree.  Ch’ang-an  started  her  harmonica  again.  “Tell  me  the
tales that to me were so dear, long, long ago, long, long ago…”

The  next  day  she  summoned  up  enough  courage  to  tell  her  mother,  “I

don’t feel like going back to school, Mother.”

Ch’i-ch’iao opened her eyes wide. “Why?”
“I  can’t  keep  up  with  the  lessons,  and  the  food  is  too  bad,  I  can’t  get

used to it.”

Ch’i-ch’iao  took  off  a slipper  and slapped  her with  its sole  just by the
way, saying bitterly, “Your father was not as good as other people, you’re
also not as good? You weren’t born a freak, you’re just being perverse so as
to disappoint me.”

Looking  down,  Ch’ang-an  stood  with  her  hands  behind  her  back  and
would not  speak. So  the  amahs  intervened,  “Little  Miss  is  grown  up now,
and it’s a bit inconvenient for her to go to school where there’re all sorts of
people. Actually, it’s just as well for her not to go.”

Ch’i-ch’iao paused to reflect. “At least we have to get the tuition back.
Why give it to them for nothing?” She wanted Ch’ang-an to go with her to
collect  it.  Ch’ang-an  would  have  fought  to  the  death  rather  than  go.  Ch’i-
ch’iao  took  two  amahs  with  her.  The  way  she  told  it  when  she  returned,
although she did not get the money back, she had thoroughly humiliated the
principal. Afterwards, when Ch’ang-an met any of her schoolmates on the
street,  she reddened  and paled  alternately. Earth  had no room  for  her. She
could  only  pretend  not  to  see  and  walk  past  them  hastily.  When  friends
wrote her, she dared not even open the letters and just sent them back. Thus
her school life came to an end.

Sometimes she felt the sacrifice was not worth it and was secretly sorry,
but it was too late. She gradually gave up all thought of self-improvement
and  kept  to  her  place.  She  learned  to  make  trouble,  play  little  tricks,  and
interfere with the running of the house. She often fell out with her mother,
but she looked and sounded more and more like her. Every time she wore a
pair  of  unlined  trousers  and  sat  with  her  legs  apart  and  the  palms  of  both
hands on the stool in front of her, her head tilted to one side, her chin on her
chest, looking dismally but intently at the woman opposite and telling her,
“Every  family  has  its  own  troubles,  Cousin-in-law—every  family  has  its
own  troubles!”  she  appeared  Ch’i-ch’iao’s  spit  and  image.  She  wore  a
pigtail  and  her  eyes  and  eyebrows  had  a  taut  expressiveness  about  them
reminiscent of Ch’i-ch’iao in her prime, but her small mouth was a bit too
sunken,  which  made  her  look  older.  Even  when  she  was  younger,  she  did
not  seem  fresh,  but  was  like  a  tender  bunch  of  vegetables  that  had  been
salted.

Some  people  tried  to  make  matches  for  her.  If  the  other  side  was  not
well  off,  Ch’i-ch’iao  would  always  suspect  it  wanted  their  money.  If  the
other  side  had  wealth  and  influence,  it  would  show  little  enthusiasm.
Ch’ang-an had only average good looks, and since her mother was not only
lowborn but also known for her shrewishness, she probably would not have
much  upbringing.  So  the  high  were  out  of  reach  and  the  low  Ch’i-ch’iao
would  not  stoop  to—Ch’ang-an  stayed  home  year  after  year.  But  Ch’ang-
pai’s marriage could not be delayed. When he gambled outside and showed
enough  personal  interest  in  certain  Peking  opera  actresses  to  attend  their
performances  regularly,  Ch’i-ch’iao  still  had  nothing  to  say;  she  got
alarmed only when he started to go to brothels with his Third Uncle Chiang
Chi-tse. In great haste she betrothed and married him to a Miss Yuan, called
Chih-shou as a child.

The  wedding  ceremony  was  half  modern,  and  the  bride,  without  the
customary red kerchief over her head and face, wore blue eyeglasses and a
pink  wedding  veil  instead,  and  a  pink  blouse  and  skirt  with  multi-colored
embroidery. The glasses were removed after she entered the bridal chamber
and  sat  with  bowed  head  under  the  turquoise-colored  bed  curtains.  The
guests gathered for the “riot in the bridal chamber” surrounded her, making
jokes. Ch’i-ch’iao came out after taking a look. Ch’ang-an overtook her at
the door and whispered, “Fair-skinned, only the lips are a bit too thick.”

Ch’i-ch’iao leaned a hand on the doorway, took a gold ear-spoon from
her bun to scratch her head with, and laughed sardonically. “Don’t start on
that  now.  Your  new  sister-in-law’s  lips,  chop  them  up  and  they’ll  make  a
heaping dish!”

“Well, it’s said that people with thick lips have warm feelings,” said a

lady beside her.

Ch’i-ch’iao  snorted;  pointing  her  gold  ear-spoon  at  the  woman;  she
lifted  an  eyebrow  and  said  with  a  crooked  little  smile,  “It  isn’t  so  nice  to
have  warm  feelings.  I  can’t  say  much  in  front  of  young  ladies—just  hope
our Master Pai won’t die in her hands.” Ch’i-ch’iao was born with a high
clear voice, which had grown less shrill as she grew older, but it was still
cutting,  or rather rasping, like a razor  blade.  Her  last  remark could  not  be
called loud, nor was it exactly soft. Could the bride, surrounded by a crowd
as she was, possibly have registered a quiver on her severely flat face and
chest? Probably it was just a reflection of the flames leaping on the tall pair
of dragon-and-phoenix candles.

After 

the  Third  Day  Ch’i-ch’iao  found 

the  bride  stupid  and
unsatisfactory  in  various  things  and  often  complained  to  relatives.  Some
said placatingly, “The bride is young. Second Sister-in-law will just have to
take the trouble to teach her. It just happens that the child is naive.”

Ch’i-ch’iao  made  a spitting  noise.  “Our  new  young  mistress  may  look
innocent—but as soon as she sees Master Pai she has to go and sit on the
nightstool. Really! It sounds unbelievable, doesn’t it?”

When the talk reached Chih-shou’s ears, she wanted to kill herself. This
was  before  the  end  of  the  first  month,  when  Ch’i-ch’iao  still  kept  up
appearances.  Later  she  would  even  say  such  things  in  front  of  Chih-shou,
who could  neither  cry nor laugh  with  impunity. And if  she merely  looked
wooden, pretending not to listen, Gh’i-ch’iao would slap the table and sigh,
“It’s really not easy, to eat a mouthful of rice in the house of your son and
daughter-in-law! People pull a long face at you at the drop of a hat.”

One  night  Ch’i-ch’iao  was  lying  on  the  opium  couch  smoking  while
Ch’ang-pai  crouched  on  a  nearby  upholstered  chair  cracking  watermelon
seeds. The radio was broadcasting a little-known Peking opera. He followed
it in a book, humming the lyrics word by word, and as he got into the mood,
swung a leg up over the back of the chair rocking it back and forth to mark
the rhythm.

Ch’i-ch’iao  reached  out  a  foot  to  give  him  a  kick.  “Come  Master  Pai,

fill the pipe for me a couple of times.”

“With an opium lamp right there why put me to work? I have honey on
my fingers or something?” Ch’ang-pai stretched himself while replying and
slowly moved over to the little stool in front of the opium lamp and rolled
up his sleeves.

“Unfilial slave, what kind of answer is that! Putting you to work is an
honor.” She looked at him through slitted smiling eyes. All these years he
had been the only man in her life. Only with him there was no danger of his
being after her money—it was his anyway. But being her son, he amounted
to less than half a man. And even the half she could not keep, now that he
was  married.  He  was  a  slight,  pale  young  man,  a  bit  hunched,  with  gold-
rimmed  glasses  and  fine  features  meticulously  drawn,  often  smiling
vacantly, his mouth hanging open and something shining inside, either too
much saliva or a gold tooth. The collar of his gown was open, showing its
pearly lamb lining  and a white  pajama  shirt.  Ch’i-ch’iao  put  a foot  on his

shoulder and kept giving him light kicks on the neck, whispering, “Unfilial
slave, I’ll fix you! When do you get so unfilial?”

Ch’ang-pai  quoted  with  a  smile,  “’Take  a  wife  and  the  mother  is

forgotten’ ”

“Don’t  talk  nonsense,  our  Master  Pai  is  not  that  kind  of  person,  nor
could  I  have  had  a  son  like  that  either,”  said  Ch’i-ch’iao.  Ch’ang-pai  just
smiled. She looked fixedly at him from the corners of her eyes. “If you’re
still my Master Pai as before, cook opium for me all night tonight.”

“That’s no problem,” he said, smiling.
“If you doze off, see if I don’t hammer you with my fists.”
The  living  room  curtains  had  been  sent  to  be  washed.  Outside  the
windows the moon was barely visible behind dark clouds, a dab of black, a
dab of white like a ferocious theatrical mask. Bit by bit it came out of the
clouds and a ray of light shone disconcertingly from under a black strip of
cloud, an eye under the mask. The sky was the dark blue of the bottomless
pit. It was long past midnight, and Ch’ang-an had gone to bed long ago. As
Ch’ang-pai started to nod while rolling the opium pills, Ch’i-ch’iao poured
him  a  cup  of  strong  tea.  The  two  of  them  ate  honeyed  preserves  and
discussed neighbors’ secrets. Ch’i-ch’iao suddenly said, smiling, “Tell me,
Master Pai, is your wife nice?”

“What is there to say about it?” Ch’ang-pai said, smiling.
“Must be nice if there is nothing to criticize,” said Ch’i-ch’iao.
“Who said she’s nice?”
“Not nice? In wharway? Tell Mother.”
Ch’ang-pai  was  vague  at  first  but  under  cross-examination  he  had  to
reveal a thing or two. The amahs handing them tea turned aside to chuckle
and the slave girls covered their mouths trying not to laugh and slipped out
of the room. Ch’i-ch’iao gritted her teeth and laughed and muttered curses,
removed the pipe bowl to knock out the ashes with all her strength, banging
loudly. Once started, Ch’ang-pai found it hard to stop and talked all night.

The  next  morning  Ch’i-ch’iao  told  the  amahs  to  bring  a  couple  of
blankets  to  let  the  young  master  sleep  on  the  couch.  Chih-shou  was  up
already and came to pay her respects. Ch’i-ch’iao had not slept all night but
was  more  energetic  than  ever  and  asked  relatives  over  to  play  mahjong,
women  of  different  families  including  her  daughter-in-law’s  mother.  Over
the  mahjong  table  she  told  in  detail  all  her  daughter-in-law’s  secrets  as
confessed by her son, adding some touches of her own that made the story

still more vivid. Everybody tried to change the subject, but the small talk no
sooner  started  than  Ch’i-ch’iao  would  smilingly  switch  it  back  to  her
daughter-in-law. Chih-shou’s mother turned purple. Too ashamed to see her
daughter, she just put down her mahjong tiles and went home in her private
ricksha.

Ch’i-ch’iao  made  Ch’ang-pai  cook  opium  for  her  for  two  nights
running.  Chih-shou  lay  stiffly  in  bed  with  both  hands  on  her  ribs  curled
upward  like  a  dead  chicken’s  claws.  She  knew  her  mother-in-law  was
questioning  her  husband  again,  although  heaven  knew  how  he  could  have
anything  fresh  to  say.  Tomorrow  he  would  again  come  to  her  with  a
drooling,  mock-pleading  look.  Perhaps  he  had  guessed  that  she  would
center all her hatred on him. Even if she could not fight savagely with tooth
and nail, she would at least upbraid him and make a scene. Very likely he
would steal her thunder by coming in half drunk, to pick on her and smash
something. She knew  his ways.  In  the  end  he  would  sit  down  on  the  bed,
raise  his  shoulders,  reach  inside  his  white  silk  pajama  shirt  to  scratch
himself,  and  smile  unexpectedly.  A  little  light  would  tremble  on  his  gold-
rimmed spectacles and twinkle in his mouth, spit or gold tooth. He would
take off his glasses… Chih-shou suddenly sat up and parted the bed curtains
with  the  sound  of  a  bucket  of  water  crashing  down.  This  was  an  insane
world, a husband not like a husband, a mother-in-law not like a mother-in-
law.  Either  they  were  mad  or  she  was.  The  moon  tonight  was  better  than
ever, high and full like a white sun in a pitch-black sky, not a cloud within
ten  thousand  li.  Blue  shadows  all  over  the  floor  and  blue  shadows  on  the
canopy overhead. Her feet, too, were in the deathly still blue shadows.

Thinking  to  hook  up  the  bed  curtains,  Chih-shou  reached  out  groping
for  the  hook.  With  one  hand  holding  on  to  the  brass  hook  and  her  face
snuggled  against  her  shoulder,  she  could  not  keep  the  sobs  from  starting.
The  curtain  dropped  by  itself.  There  was  nobody  but  her  inside  the  dark
bed.  Still  she  hastened  to  hook  the  curtains  up  in  a  panic.  Outside  the
windows  there  was  still  that  abnormal  moon  that  made  one’s  body  hairs
stand on end all over—small white sun brilliant in the black sky. Inside the
room  she  could  clearly  see  the  embroidered  rosy-purple  chair  covers  and
table cloths, the gold-embroidered scarlet screen with five phoenixes flying
in  a  row,  the  pink  satin  scrolls  embroidered  with  seal-script  characters
embellished with flowers. On the dressing table the silver powder jar, silver
mouth-rinsing mug, and silver vase were each caught in a red and green net

and filled with wedding candies. Along the silk panel across the lintel of the
bed hung balls  of flowers,  toy  flower  pots, ju-yi,12 and rice dumplings,  all
made  of  multi-colored  gilded  velvet,  and  dangling  underneath  them  glass
balls the size of finger tips and mauvish pink tassels a foot long. In such a
big room crammed full of trunks, spare bedding, and furnishings, surely she
could  find  a  sash  to  hang  herself  with.  She  fell  back  on  the  bed.  In  the
moonlight her feet had no color of life at all—bluish, greenish, purplish, the
tints of a corpse gone cold. She wanted to die, she wanted to die. She was
afraid  of  the  moonlight  but  dared  not  turn  on  the  light.  Tomorrow  her
mother-in-law  would  say,  “Master  Pai  fixed  me  a  couple  more  pipes  and
our poor young mistress couldn’t sleep the whole night, kept her light on to
all  hours  waiting  for  him  to  come  back—can’t  do  without  him.”  Chih-
shou’s  tears  flowed  along  the  pillow.  She  did  not  wipe  her  eyes  with  a
handkerchief;  rubbing  would  get  them  swollen  and  her  mother-in-law
would again say, “Master Pai didn’t sleep in his room for just one night and
Young Mistress cried until her eyes were like peaches!”

Although  Ch’i-ch’iao  pictured  her  son  and  daughter-in-law  as  a
passionate  couple,  Ch’ang-pai  was  not  very  pleased  with  Chih-shou  and
Chih-shou on her part hated him so much her teeth itched to bite. Since the
two  did  not  get  along,  Ch’ang-pai  again  went  strolling  in  “the  streets  of
flowers and the lanes of willows.” Ch’i-ch’iao gave him a slave girl called
Chüan-erh  for  a  concubine  and  still  could  not  hold  him.  She  also  tried  in
various  ways  to  get  him  to  smoke  opium.  Ch’ang-pai  had  always  liked  a
couple  of  puffs  for  fun  but  he  had  never  got  into  the  habit.  Now  that  he
smoked  more  he  quieted  down  and  no  longer  went  out  much,  just  stayed
with his mother and his new concubine.

His  sister  Ch’ang-an  got  dysentery  when  she  was  twenty-four.  Instead
of getting a doctor, Ch’i-ch’iao persuaded her to smoke a little opium and it
did  ease  the  pain.  After  she  recovered  she  also  got  into  the  habit.  An
unmarried  girl  without  any  other  distractions,  Ch’ang-an  went  at  it
singlemindedly  and  smoked  even  more  than  her  brother.  Some  tried  to
dissuade her. Ch’i-ch’iao said. “What is there to be afraid of? For one thing
we Chiangs can still afford it, and even if I sold two hundred mou of land
today so the brother and sister could smoke, who is there who’d dare let out
half  a  fart?  When  the  girl  gets  married  she’ll  have  her  dowry,  she’ll  be
eating and drinking out of her own pocket, so even if Ku-yeh stints on it he
can only look on.”

All  the  same  Ch’ang-an’s  prospects  were  affected.  The  matchmakers,
who  had  never  come  running  to  begin  with,  now  disappeared  altogether.
When  Ch’ang-an  was  nearly  thirty,  Ch’i-ch’iao  changed  her  tune,  seeing
that  her  daughter  was  fated  to  be  an  old  maid.  “Not  married  off  because
she’s  not  good-looking,  and  yet  blames  her  mother  for  putting  it  off,
spoiling her chances. Pulls a long face all day as if I owed her two hundred
copper coins. It’s certainly not to make myself miserable that I’ve kept her
at home, feeding her free tea and rice!”

On  the  twentieth  birthday  of  Chiang  Chi-tse’s  daughter  Ch’ang-hsing,
Ch’ang-an  went  to  give  her  cousin  her  best  wishes.  Chiang  Chi-tse  was
poor  now  but  fortunately  his  wide  social  contacts  kept  him  more  or  less
solvent. Ch’ang-hsing said to her mother in secret, “Mother, try to introduce
a friend to Sister An, she seems so pitiful. Her eyes reddened with tears at
the very mention of conditions at home.”

Lan-hsien  hastily  held  up  her  palm,  shaking  it  from  side  to  side.  “No,
no!  This  match  I  dare  not  make.  Stir  up  your  Second  Aunt  with  her
temper?”

But  Ch’ang-hsing,  young  and  meddlesome,  paid  her  no  heed.  After
some time she by chance mentioned Ch’ang-an’s case to her schoolmates,
and  it  happened  that  one  of  them  had  an  uncle  newly  returned  from
Germany,  a  northerner,  too,  even  distantly  related  to  the  Chiangs,  as  it
turned  out  when  they  really  investigated  his  background.  The  man  was
called  T’ung  Shih-fang,  and  was  several  years  older  than  Ch’ang-an.  And
Ch’ang-hsing took matters into her own hands and arranged everything. Her
schoolmate’s  mother  would  play  hostess.  On  Ch’ang-an’s  side  her  family
was kept as much in the dark as if sealed in an iron barrel.

tuberculosis  Ch’i-ch’iao 

Ch’i-ch’iao  had  always  had  a  strong  constitution  but  ever  since  Chih-
shou  had  got 
thought  her  daughter-in-law
disgustingly affected, making much of herself, eating this and that, unable
to stand the least fatigue and seemingly having a better time than usual, so
she,  too,  got  sick  out  of  spite.  At  first  it  was  just  weak  breath  and  thin
blood, but even then it sent the entire household into a spin, so that they had
no  time  for  Chih-shou.  Later  Ch’i-ch’iao  got  seriously  ill  and  took  to  her
bed  and  there  was  more  fuss  than  ever.  Ch’ang-an  slipped  out  in  the
confusion  and  called  a  tailor  to  her  Third  Uncle’s  house,  where  Ch’ang-
hsing  designed  a  new  costume  for  her.  On  the  day  of  the  dinner  Ch’ang-
hsing  accompanied  her  in  the  late  afternoon  to  see  the  hairdresser,  who

waved her hair with hot tongs and plastered close-set little kiss-curls from
the temple to the ears. Upon returning home, Ch’ang-hsing made her cousin
wear  “glassy-green”  jadeite13’  earrings  with  pagoda-shaped  pendants  two
inches  long  and  change  into  an  apple-green  georgette  gown  with  a  high
collar,  ruffled  sleeves,  and  fine  pleats  below  the  waist,  half  Western  style.
As  a  young  maid  squatted  on  the  floor  buttoning  her  up,  Ch’ang-an
scrutinized herself in the wardrobe mirror and could not help stretching out
both arms and kicking out the skirt in a posture from “The Grape Fairy.”14
Twisting her head around, she started to laugh, saying, “Really dolled up to
look like the celestial maiden scattering flowers!”15

Ch’ang-hsing  signaled  the  maid  in  the  mirror  with  her  eyes  and  they
both laughed. After Ch’ang-an had finished dressing, she sat down straight-
backed on a high chair.

“I’ll go and telephone for a taxi,” Ch’ang-hsing said.
“It’s early yet,” said Ch’ang-an.
Ch’ang-hsing looked at her watch. “We’re supposed to be there at eight.

It’s now five past.”

“It probably wouldn’t matter if we were half an hour late.”
Ch’ang-hsing thought it both infuriating and laughable for her cousin to
want  to  put  on  airs.  She  opened  her  woven  silver  handbag  to  examine  its
contents. On the pretext that she had forgotten her compact, she went to her
mother’s  room  and  told  her  all  about  it,  adding,  “T’ung  is  not  the  host
today, so for whom is she putting on airs? I won’t bother to talk her out of
it, let her dawdle till tomorrow morning, it’s none of my business.”

Lan-hsien  said,  “Look  how  silly  you  are!  You  made  the  appointment,
you’re making the match, how can you not be responsible? I’ve told you so
many times you should have known better, Little Miss An is just as petty as
her mother and not used to company. She’ll make a spectacle of herself and
she’s your cousin after all. If you lose face you deserve it—who told you to
get into this? Gone crazy from having nothing to do?”

Ch’ang-hsing sat pouting in her mother’s room for a long while.
“It  looks  as  if  your  cousin  is  waiting  to  be  pressed,”  Lan-hsien  said,

smiling.

“I’m not going to press her.”
“Silly girl, what’s the use of your pressing? She’s waiting for the other

side to telephone.”

Ch’ang-hsing broke out laughing. “She’s not a bride, to be urged three,

four times and forced into the sedan chair.”

“Ring up the restaurant anyway and be done with it—tell them to call.

It’s almost nine. If you wait any longer it’s really off.”

Ch’ang-hsing  had  to  do  as  she  was  told  and  finally  set  out  with  her

cousin.

Ch’ang-an was still in good spirits in the car, talking and laughing away.
But once in the restaurant, she suddenly became reserved, stealing into the
room  behind  Ch’ang-hsing,  timidly  removed  her  apple-green  ostrich  cape
and  sat  down  with  bowed  head,  took  an  almond  and  bit  off  a  tenth  of  it
every two minutes, chewing slowly. She had come to be looked at. She felt
that her costume was impeccable and could stand scrutiny but her body was
altogether superfluous and could as well be shrunk in size and put away if
she  knew  how  to  do  this.  She  kept  silent  throughout  the  meal.  While
waiting for the dessert, Ch’ang-hsing pulled her to the window to watch the
street scene and walked off on some pretext, and T’ung Shih-fang ambled
over to the window.

“Has Miss Chiang been here before?” he said.
“No,” Ch’ang-an said in a small voice.
“The first time for me too. The food is not bad, but I’m not quite used to

it yet.”

“Not used to it?”
“Yes, foreign food is more bland, Chinese food is more greasy. When I
had just come back friends and relatives made me eat out for several days
running and I easily got an upset stomach.”

Ch’ang-an looked at her fingers back and front as if intent on counting

how many of the whorls were “snails” and how many “shovels.”

Out of nowhere a little neon light sign in the shape of a flower bloomed
on  the  windowpane,  reflected  from  the  shop  opposite,  red  petals  with  a
green heart. It was the lotus of the Nile set before the gods and also the lily
emblem of French royalty…

Shih-fang, who had nor seen any girls of his homeland for many years,
was struck by Ch’ang-an’s pathetic charm and rather liked it. He had been
engaged  long  before  he  went  abroad,  but  having  fallen  in  love  with  a
schoolmate  he  violently  opposed  the  match.  After  endless  long-distance
negotiations  he  almost  broke  with  his  parents  who  for  a  time  stopped
sending money, causing him much hardship. They finally gave in, however,

and put an end to his engagement. Unfortunately his schoolmate fell in love
with somebody else. In his disappointment he dug in and studied for seven,
eight  years.  His  conviction  that  old-fashioned  wives  were  best  was  also  a
rebound.

After  this meeting with  Ch’ang-an,  they  were  both  interested.  Ch’ang-
hsing  thought  she  should  finish  her  good  deed  but,  however  enthusiastic,
she was not qualified to speak to Ch’ang-an’s mother. She had to beg Lan-
hsien, who refused adamantly, saying, “You know very well your father and
your  Second  Aunt  are  like  enemies,  never  see  each  other.  Although  I’ve
never  quarreled  with  her  there’s  no  love  lost.  Why  ask  to  be  cold-
shouldered?”

Ch’ang-an  said  nothing  when  she  saw  Lan-hsien,  merely  shed  tears.
Lan-hsien had to promise to go just once. The sisters-in-law met and after
the amenities Lan-hsien explained the purpose of her visit. Ch’i-ch’iao was
glad enough when she first heard of it.

“Then I’ll leave it to Third Sister,” she said. “I haven’t been at all well, I
can’t cope with it, will just have to trouble Third Sister. This girl has been a
dead weight on my hands. As a mother I can’t be said to have not done right
by her. When old-fashioned rules were in force I bound her feet, when new-
fangled rules were in force I sent her to school—what else is there? A girl I
dug out my heart and liver to train, as it were, she shouldn’t have no takers
as long as she’s not scarred or pock-marked or blind. But this girl was born
an Ah-tou16 that can’t be propped up. I get so angry I keep yelling: ’Oh, for
the day that I shut my eyes and am gone!’—her marriage will then be in the
hands of heaven and left to fate.”

So it was agreed that Lan-hsien would ask both sides to dinner so they
could take a look at each other. Ch’ang-an and T’ung Shih-fang met again
as if for the first time. Ch’i-ch’iao, sick in bed, did not appear, so Ch’ang-an
got  engaged  in  peace.  At  the  dinner  table  Lan-hsien  and  Ch’ang-hsing
forcibly  took  Ch’ang-an’s  hand  and  placed  it  in  T’ung  Shih-fang’s.  Shih-
fang put the ring on her finger in public. And the girl’s family gave gifts in
return, not the traditional stationery but a pen set in a velvet-lined box plus
a wrist watch.

After  the  engagement  Ch’ang-an  furtively  went  out  alone  with  T’ung
Shih-fang several times. The two of them walked side by side in the park in
the autumn sun, talking very little, each content with a partial view of the
other’s clothes and moving feet. The fragrance of her face powder and his

tobacco  smell  served  as  invisible  railings  that  separated  them  from  the
crowd. On the open green lawn where so many people ran and laughed and
talked,  they  alone  walked  an  enchanted  porch  that  wound  on  endlessly  in
silence. Ch’ang-an did not feel there was anything amiss in not talking. She
thought  this  was  all  there  was  to  social  contact  between  modern  men  and
women. As to T’ung Shih-fang, from painful experience in the past he was
dubious anyway of the exchange of thought. He was satisfied that someone
was beside him. Formerly he had been disgusted by the character in fiction
who  would  say,  when  asking  a  woman  to  live  with  him,  “Please  give  me
solace.”  Solace  is  purely  spiritual  but  it  is  used  here  as  a  euphemism  for
sex. But now he knew the line between the spiritual and the physical could
not be drawn so clearly. Words are no use after all. Holding hands for a long
time is a more apt consolation, because not many people talk well and still
fewer really have anything to say.

Sometimes  it  rained  in  the  park.  Ch’ang-an  would  open  her  umbrella
and Shih-fang would hold it for her. Upon the translucent blue silk umbrella
myriad  raindrops  twinkled  like  a  skyful  of  stars  that  would  follow  them
about  later  on  the  taxi’s  glistening  front  window  of  crushed  silver  and,  as
the  car  ran  through  red  and  green  lights,  a  nestful  of  red  stars  would  fly
humming outside the window and a nestful of green stars.

Ch’ang-an  brought  back  some  of  the  stray  dreams  under  the  starlight
and became unusually silent, often smiling. Ch’i-ch’iao saw the change and
could not help getting angry and sarcastic. “These many years we haven’t
been  very  attentive  to  Miss,  no  wonder  Miss  seldom  smiled.  Now  you’ve
got  your  wish  and  are  going  to  spring  out  of  the  Chiangs’  door.  But  no
matter how happy you are, don’t show it on your face so much— it’s simply
sickening.”

In former days Ch’ang-an would have answered back, but now that she
appeared  a  transformed  person  she  let  it  go  and  concentrated  on  curing
herself of the opium habit. Ch’i-ch’iao could do nothing with her.

Eldest Mistress Tai-chen, who had not been present when Ch’ang-an got
engaged, came to the house to congratulate her sometime afterward. Ch’i-
ch’iao whispered, “Eldest Sister-in-law, it seems to me we still have to ask
around a bit. This is not a matter to blunder into. The other day I seemed to
have  heard  something  about  a  wife  in  the  country  and  another  across  the
seas.”

“The one in the country was sent back before marriage,” said Tai-chen.
“The same with the one overseas. It’s said that they were friends for several
years, nobody knew why nothing came of it.”

“What’s so strange about that? Men’s hearts change faster than you can
say change. He didn’t even acknowledge the one who came with the three
matchmakers and six gifts, not to say the hussy that’s neither fish nor flesh.
Who knows whether he has anybody else across the seas? I have only this
one daughter, I  can’t muddle along  and ruin  her whole life.  I  myself  have
suffered in matchmakers’ hands.”

Ch’ang-an sat to one side pressing her fingernails into her palm until the
palm  reddened  and  the  nails  turned  white  from  the  strain.  Ch’i-ch’iao
looked up and saw her. “Shameless girl, pricking up your ears to listen! Is
this anything that you should hear? When we were girls we couldn’t get out
of the way fast enough at the very mention of marriage. You Chiangs had
generations  of  book  learning  in  vain,  you  may  have  to  go  and  learn  some
manners from your mother’s family with their sesame oil shop.”

Ch’ang-an  ran  out  crying.  Ch’i-ch’iao  pounded  her  pillow  and  sighed.
“Miss couldn’t wait to marry, so what can I do? She’d drag home any old
smelly stinking thing. It’s supposed to be her Third Aunt that found him for
her—actually she’s just using her Third Aunt for a blind. Probably the rice
was  already  cooked  before  they  asked  Third  Aunt  to  be  matchmaker.
Everybody ganged up to fool me—and just as well. If the truth came out,
where should the mother and brother look?”

Another day Ch’ang-an slipped out on some excuse. When she got back
she  was  going  to  report  every  place  she  had  been  before  Ch’i-ch’iao  had
even asked.

“All right, all right, save your words,” Ch’i-ch’iao barked. “What’s the
use of lying to me? Let me catch you red-handed one day—humph! don’t
you think that because you’re grown up and engaged I can’t beat you any
more!”

’I  went  to  give  Cousin  Hsing  those  slipper  patterns,  what’s  wrong  in
that?”  Ch’ang-an  was  upset.  “If  Mother  doesn’t  believe  me,  she  can  ask
Third Aunt.”

“Your Third Aunt found you a man and she’s the father and mother of
your  rebirth!  Never  seen  anybody  as  cheap  as  you…  Disappears  in  the
twinkling of an eye. Your family kept you and honored you all these years

—short of buying a page to serve you, where have we been remiss, that you
can’t even stay home for a moment?”

Ch’ang-an blushed, tears falling straight down.
Ch’i-ch’iao paused for breath. “So many good ones were turned down
before  and  now  you  go  and  marry  a  ne’er-do-well,  the  leftover  of  the  lot,
isn’t  that  slapping  one’s  own  face?  If  he’s  a  man,  how  did  he  live  to  be
thirty-something,  cross  oceans  and  seas  over  a  hundred  thousand  li,  and
never get himself a wife?”

But Ch’ang-an remained obdurate. Both parties being none too young,
several  months  after  the  engagement  Lan-hsien  came  to  Ch’i-ch’iao  as
Shih-fang’s deputy and asked her to set a date for the wedding.

Ch’i-ch’iao pointed at Ch’ang-an. “Won’t marry early, won’t marry late,
has to choose this year when there’s no money at hand. If we have a better
harvest next year, the trousseau would be more complete.”

“Modern-style weddings don’t go in for these things. Might as well do it

the new way and save a little,” Lan-hsien said.

“New ways, old ways, what’s the difference? The old ways are more for

show, the new ways more practical—the girl’s family is the loser anyway.”

“Just  do  whatever  you  see  fit,  Second  Sister-in-law,  Little  Miss  An  is
not going to argue about getting too little, is she?” At this everybody in the
room laughed; even Ch’ang-an could not help a little smile.

Ch’i-ch’iao  burst  out,  “Shameless!  You  have  something  in  your  belly
that won’t keep or what? Can’t wait to get over there, as if your eyebrows
were  on  fire.  Will  even  do  without  the  trousseau—you’re  willing,  others
may not be. You’re so sure he’s after your person? What vanity! Have you
got a presentable spot on you? Stop lying to yourself. This man T’ung has
his eyes on the Chiangs’ name and prestige, that’s all. Your family sounds
so grand with its tides and its eminent generals and ministers, actually it’s
not so at all. It’s been strong outside and shriveled up inside long since, and
for these last few years couldn’t even keep up appearances. Moreover, each
generation  of  your  family  is  worse  than  the  one  before,  no  regard  for
heaven and earth and king and parent any more. The young masters know
nothing  whatsoever  and  all  the  young  ladies  know  is  to  grab  money  and
want men—worse than pigs and dogs. My own family was a thousand times
and  ten  thousand  times  to  blame  in  making  this  match—ruined  my  whole
life. I’m going to tell this man T’ung not to make the same mistake before
it’s too late.”

After  this  quarrel  Lan-hsien  washed  her  hands  of  the  match.  Ch’i-
ch’iao,  convalescing,  could  get  out  of  bed  a  bit  and  would  sit  astride  the
doorway  and  call  out  toward  Ch’ang-an’s  room  day  after  day,  “You  want
strange men, go look for them, just don’t bring them home to greet me as
mother-in-law and make me die of anger. Out of sight, out of mind, that’s
all I ask. I’d be grateful if Miss will let me live a couple of years longer.”
She had just these few sentences arranged in different orders, shouted out so
that the whole street could hear. Of course the talk spread among relatives,
boiling and steaming.

Ch’i-ch’iao then called Ch’ang-an to her, suddenly in tears. “My child,
you know people outside are saying this and that about you, have smirched
you till you’re not worth a copper coin. Ever since your mother married into
the Chiang family, from top to bottom there’s not one that’s not a snob. Man
stands low in dogs’ eyes. I took so much from them in the open and in the
dark. Even your father, did he ever do me a good turn that I’d want to stay
his widow? I stayed and suffered endless hardships these twenty years, just
hoping  that  you  two  children  would  grow  up  and  win  back  some  face  for
me. I never knew it’d come to this.” And she wept.

Ch’ang-an was thunderstruck. Never mind if her mother made her out to
be less than human or if outsiders said the same; let them. Only T’ung Shih-
fang—he—what  would  he  think?  Did  he  still  want  her?  Was  there  any
change  in  his  manner  last  time  she  saw  him?  Hard  to  say…  She  was  too
happy,  she  wouldn’t  notice  little  differences…  Between  the  discomfort  of
taking  the  cure  and  these  repeated  provocations  Ch’ang-an  was  already
having  a  hard  time  but,  forcing  herself  to  bear  up,  she  had  endured.  Now
she suddenly felt as though all her bones were out of joint. Explain to him?
Unlike  her  brother,  he  was  not  her  mother’s  offspring  and  could  never
thoroughly understand her mother. It would have been all right if he never
had to meet her mother but sooner or later he would make her acquaintance.
Marriage is a lifelong affair; you can be a thief all your life but you can’t
always  be  on  guard  against  thieves.  Who  knew  what  her  mother  would
resort to? Sooner or later there would be trouble, sooner or later there would
be a break. This was the most beautiful episode of her life, better finish it
herself before other people could add a disgusting ending to it. A beautiful,
desolate gesture… She knew she would be sorry, she knew she would, but
unconcernedly  she  lifted  her  eyebrows  and  said,  “Since  Mother  is  not
willing to make this match I’ll just go and tell them no.”

Ch’i-ch’iao held still for a moment before she went on sobbing.
Ch’ang-an paused to collect herself and went to telephone T’ung Shih-
fang.  Shih-fang  did  not  have  time  that  day,  and  arranged  to  meet  her  the
next  afternoon.  What  she  dreaded  most  was  the  night  in  between,  and  it
finally passed, each minute and every chime of the quarter hour sinking its
teeth into her heart. The next day, at the old place in the park he came up
smiling without greeting her; to him this was an expression of intimacy. He
seemed to take special notice of her today, kept looking into her face as they
walked shoulder to shoulder. With the sun shining brightly she was all the
more conscious of her swollen eyelids and could hardly lift her eyes. Better
say it while he was not looking at her. Hoarse from weeping, she whispered,
“Mr.  T’ung.”  He  did  not  hear  her.  Then  she’d  better  say  it  while  he  was
looking  at  her.  Surprised  that  she  was  still  smiling  slightly,  she  said  in  a
small  voice,  “Mr.  T’ung,  I  think—about  us—perhaps  we’d  better—better
leave it for now. I’m very sorry.” She took off her ring and pushed it into his
hand—cold gritty ring, cold gritty fingers. She quickened her pace walking
away. After a stunned moment he caught up with her.
“Why? Not satisfied with me in some way?”
Ch’ang-an shook her head, looking straight ahead.
“Then why?”
“My mother…”
“Your mother has never seen me.”
“I  told  you,  it’s  not  because  of  you,  nothing  to  do  with  you.  My

mother…”

Shih-fang  stood  still.  In  China  must  her  kind  of  reasoning  be  taken  as

fully adequate? As he hesitated, she was already some distance away.

The  park  had  basked  in  the  late  autumn  sun  for  a  morning  and  an
afternoon, and its air was now heavy with fragrance, like rotten-ripe fruit on
a  tree.  Ch’ang-an  heard,  coming  faintly  in  slow  swings,  the  sound  of  a
harmonica clumsily picking out “Long, Long Ago”—“Tell me the tales that
to me were so dear, long, long ago, long, long ago…” This was now, but in
the twinkling of an eye it would have become long, long ago and everything
would be over. As if under a spell Ch’ang-an went looking for the person
blowing  the  harmonica—looking  for  herself.  Walking with  her face  to  the
sunlight, she came under a wu-t’ung tree with a boy in khaki shorts astride
one  of  its  forked  branches.  He  was  rocking  himself  and  blowing  his
harmonica, but the tune was different, one she had never heard before. The

tree  was  not  big,  and  its  sparse  leaves  shook  in  the  sun  like  golden  bells.
Looking up, Ch’ang-an saw black as a shower of tears fell over her face. It
was  then  that  Shih-fang  found  her,  and  he  stood  quietly  beside  her  for  a
while  before  he  said,  “I  respect  your  opinion.”  She  lifted  her  handbag  to
ward off the sun from her face.

They continued to see each other for a time. Shih-fang wanted to show
that modern men do not make friends with women just to find a mate, and
so although the engagement was broken he still asked her out often. As to
Ch’ang-an, in what contradictory hopes she went out with him she herself
did  not  know  and  would  not  have  admitted  if  she  had  known.  When  they
had been engaged and openly going out together she still had had to guard
her  movements.  Now  her  rendezvous  were  more  secret  than  ever.  Shih-
fang’s  attitude  remained  straightforward.  Of  course  she  had  hurt  his  self-
respect a little, and he also thought it a pity more or less, but as the saying
goes,  “a  worthy  man  needn’t  worry  about  not  having  a  wife.”  A  man’s
highest  compliment  to  a  woman  is  a  proposal.  Shih-fang  had  pledged
himself  to  relinquish  his  freedom.  Although  Ch’ang-an  had  declined  his
valuable offer, he had done her a service at no cost to himself.

No  matter  how  subtle  and  awkward  their  relations  were,  they  actually
became  friends.  They  even  talked.  Ch’ang-an’s  naivete  often  made  Shih-
fang laugh and say, “You’re a funny one.” Ch’ang-an also began to discover
that she was an amusing person. Where matters could go from here might
surprise Shih-fang himself.

But rumors reached Ch’i-ch’iao. Behind Ch’ang-an’s back she ordered
Ch’ang-pai  to  send  T’ung  Shih-fang  a  written  invitation  to  an  informal
dinner at home. Shih-fang guessed that the Chiangs might want to warn him
not to persist in a friendship with their daughter after the break. But while
he  was  talking  with  Ch’ang-pai  over  two  cups  of  wine  about  the  weather,
current  politics,  and  local  news  in  the  somber  and  high-ceilinged  dining
room, he noticed that nothing was mentioned of Ch’ang-an. Then the cold
dishes  were  removed.  Ch’ang-pai  suddenly  leaned  his  hands  against  the
table and stood up. Shih-fang looked over his shoulder and saw a small old
lady standing at the doorway with her back to the light so that he could not
see  her  face  distinctly.  She  wore  a  blue-gray  gown  of  palace  brocade
embroidered  with  a  round  dragon  design,  and  clasped  with  both  hands  a
scarlet  hot-water  bag;  two  big  tall  amahs  stood  close  against  her.  Outside
the door the setting sun was smoky yellow, and the staircase covered with

turquoise plaid linoleum led up step after step to a place where there was no
light. Shih-fang instinctively felt this was a mad person. For no reason there
was a chill in all his hairs and bones.

“This is my mother,” Ch’ang-pai introduced her.
Shih-fang moved his chair to stand up and bow. Ch’i-ch’iao walked in
with  measured  grace,  resting  a  hand  on  an  amah’s  arm,  and  after  a  few
civilities sat down to offer him wine and food.

Where’s Sister?” Ch’ang-pai asked. “Doesn’t even come and help when

we have company.”

“She’s coming down after smoking a couple of pipes more,” Ch’i-ch’iao

said.

Shih-fang was greatly shocked and stared intently at her.
Ch’i-ch’iao hurriedly explained, “It’s such a pity this child didn’t have
proper  prenatal  care.  I  had  to  puff  smoke  at  her  as  soon  as  she  was  born.
Later, after bouts of illness, she acquired this habit of smoking. How very
inconvenient for a young lady! It isn’t that she hasn’t tried to break it, but
her health is so very delicate and she has had her way in everything for so
long it’s easier said than done. Off and on, it’s been ten years now.”

Shih-fang  could  not  help  changing  color.  Ch’i-ch’iao  had  the  caution
and quick wits of the insane. She knew if she was not careful people would
cut her short with a mocking incredulous glance, she was used to the pain
by now. Afraid  that he would  see through  her if  she talked  too  much,  she
stopped  in  time  and  busied  herself  with  filling  wine  cups  and  distributing
food. When Ch’ang-an was mentioned again she just repeated these words
lightly once more, her flat sharp voice cutting all around like a razor blade.

Ch’ang-an came downstairs quietly, her embroidered black slippers and
white silk stockings pausing in the dim yellow sunlight on the stairs. After
stopping a while she went up again, one step after another, to where there
was no light.

Ch’i-ch’iao  said,  “Ch’ang-pai,  you  drink  a  few  more  cups  with  Mr.

T’ung. I’m going up.”

The  servants  brought  the  soup  called  i-p’in-kuo,  the  “highest  ranking
pot,”  and  changed  the  wine  to  Bamboo  Leaf  Green,  newly  heated.  A
nervous slave girl stood in the doorway and signaled the page waiting at the
table to come out. After some whispering the boy came back to say a few
words  into  Ch’ang-pai’s  ear.  Ch’ang-pai  got  up  flustered  and  apologized

repeatedly  to  Shih-fang,  “Have  to  leave  you  alone  for  a  while,  be  right
back,” and also went upstairs, taking several steps in one.

Shih-fang  was  left  to  drink  alone.  Even  the  page  felt  apologetic.  “Our

Miss Chüan is about to give birth,” he whispered to him.

“Who’s Miss Chüan?” Shih-fang asked.
“Young Master’s concubine.”
Shih-fang asked for rice and made himself eat some of it. He could not
leave the minute he set his bowl down, so he waited, sitting on the carved
pearwood  couch.  Flushed  from  the  wine,  his  ears  hot,  he  suddenly  felt
exhausted  and  lay  down.  The  scrollwork  couch,  with  its  ice-cold  yellow
rattan  mat,  the  win-try  fragrance  of  pomelos…  the  concubine  having  a
baby. This was the ancient China he had been homesick for… His quiet and
demure well-born Chinese girl was an opium smoker! He sat up, his head in
his hands, feeling unbearably lonely and estranged.

He took his hat and went out, telling the page, “Later please inform your

master that I’ll thank him in person another day.”

He crossed the brick-paved courtyard where a tree grew in the center, its
bare branches printed high in the sky like the lines in crackle china. Ch’ang-
an  quietly  followed  behind,  watching  him  out.  There  were  light  yellow
daisies  on  her  navy  blue  long-sleeved  gown.  Her  hands  were  clasped  and
she had a gentle look seldom seen on her face.

Shih-fang turned around to say, “Miss Chiang…”
She stood still a long way off and just bent her head. Shih-fang bowed
slightly,  turned,  and  left.  Ch’ang-an  felt  as  though  she  were  viewing  this
sunlit  courtyard  from  some  distance  away,  looking  down  from  a  tall
building.  The  scene  was  clear,  she  herself  was  involved  but  powerless  to
intervene. The court, the tree, two people trailing bleak shadows, wordless
—not much of a memory, but still to be put in a crystal bottle and held in
both hands to be looked at some day, her first and last love.

Chih-shou lay stiffly in bed, her two hands placed palms up on her ribs
like  the  claws  of  a  slaughtered  chicken.  The  bed  curtains  were  half  up.
Night or day she would not have them let down; she was afraid.

Word  came  that  Miss  Chüan  had  given  birth  to  a  son.  The  slave  girl
tending  the  steaming  pot  of  herb  medicine  for  Chih-shou  ran  out  to  share
the  excitement.  A  wind  blew  in  through  the  open  door  and  rattled  the
curtain hooks. The curtains slid shut of their own accord but Chih-shou did

not protest any more. With a jerk to the right, her head rolled off the pillow.
She did not die then, but dragged on for another fortnight.

Miss Chüan was made a wife and became Chih-shou’s substitute. In less
than a year she swallowed raw opium and killed herself. Ch’ang-pai dared
not  marry  again,  just  went  to  brothels  now  and  then.  Ch’ang-an  of  course
had long since given up all thoughts of marriage.

Ch’i-ch’iao lay half asleep on the opium couch. For thirty years now she
had  worn  a  golden  cangue.  She  had  used  its  heavy  edges  to  chop  down
several people; those that did not die were half killed. She knew that her son
and daughter hated her to the death, that the relatives on her husband’s side
hated her, and that her own kinsfolk also hated her. She groped for the green
jade bracelet on her wrist and slowly pushed it up her bony arm as thin as
firewood until it reached the armpit. She herself could not believe she’d had
round arms when she was young. Even after she had been married several
years the bracelet only left room enough for her to tuck in a handkerchief of
imported  crepe.  As  a  girl  of  eighteen  or  nineteen,  she  would  roll  up  the
lavishly  laced  sleeves  of  her  blue  linen  blouse,  revealing  a  pair  of  snow-
white wrists, and go to the market. Among those that liked her were Ch’ao-
lu  of  the  butcher  shop;  her  brother’s  sworn  brothers,  Ting  Yü-ken  and
Chang Shao-ch’üan, and also the son of Tailor Shen. To say that they liked
her perhaps only means that they liked to fool around with her; but if she
had chosen one of these, it was very likely that her man would have shown
some  real  love  as  years  went  by  and  children  were  born.  She  moved  the
ruffled  little  foreign-styled  pillow  under  her  head  and  rubbed  her  face
against it. On her other cheek a teardrop stayed until it dried by itself: she
was too languid to brush it away.

After  Ch’i-ch’iao  passed  away,  Ch’ang-an  got  her  share  of  property
from Ch’ang-pai and moved out of the house. Ch’i-ch’iao’s daughter would
have  no  difficulty  settling  her  own  problems.  Rumor  had  it  that  she  was
seen with a man on the street stopping in front of a stall where he bought
her  a  pair  of  garters.  Perhaps  with  her  own  money  but  out  of  the  man’s
pocket anyway. Of course it was only a rumor.

The moon of thirty years ago has gone down long since and the people
of thirty years ago are dead but the story of thirty years ago is not yet ended
—can have no ending.

SEALED OFF

THE  TRAMCAR  driver  drove  his  tram.  The  tramcar  tracks,  in  the
blazing  sun,  shimmered  like  two  shiny  worms  oozing  out  from  water:
stretch, then shrink, stretch, then shrink. Soft and slippery, long old worms,
slinking on and on and on… the driver stared at the wriggling rails, and did
not go mad.

The  tramcar  would  have  gone  on  forever,  if  the  city  hadn’t  been  shut
down. It was. The streets were sealed off. “Ding-ding-ding-ding” rang the
bell.  Each  “ding”  was  a  small,  cold  dot:  dot  after  dot,  they  formed  a  line
that cut through space and time.

The tramcar stopped, but the people on the street started rushing around:
those on the left rushed over to the right, those on the right rushed over to
the  left.  The  metal  shop  gates  came  rattling  down,  all  in  a  single  sweep.
Matrons  tugged  madly  at  the  bars.  “Let  us  in!”  they  cried.  “At  least  for  a
little  while!  There  are  children  here,  and  old  people  too!”  But  the  gates
stayed  tightly  shut.  The  two  sides  glared  at  one  another  through  the  bars,
feeding off each other’s fear.

On the tram, people were fairly calm. They had somewhere to sit, and
though the tram interior was shabby, it was still quite a bit better, for most
passengers, than their rooms at home.

Gradually the street grew quiet too—not a complete silence but voices
turned  blurry,  like  the  soft  rustling  of  a  marsh-grass  pillow,  heard  in  a
dream.  The  huge,  shambling  city  sat  dozing  in  the  sun,  its  head  resting
heavily on people’s shoulders, its drool slipping slowly down their shirts, an
inconceivably enormous weight pressing down on everyone. Never before,
it seemed, had Shanghai been this quiet—and in the middle of the day! A
beggar, taking advantage of the breathless, birdless quiet, lifted up his throat
and began to chant: “Good master, good lady, kind sir, kind ma’am, won’t
you  give  alms  to  this  poor  soul?  Good  master,  good  lady…”  But  soon  he
stopped, overawed by the eerie quiet.

Then a braver beggar, a man from Shandong Province, broke the silence
firmly. His voice  was  round and resonant:  “Sad, sad, sad!  No money  do  I

have!” An old, old song, sung from one century down to the next. The tram
driver,  also  from  Shandong,  succumbed  to  the  sonorous  tune.  Heaving  a
long sigh, he folded his arms across his chest, leaned against the tram door,
and joined in: “Sad, sad, sad! No money do I have!”

A  few  passengers  got  off.  There  was  some  scattered  conversation
among those who stayed, and a group of office workers, over by the door,
resumed  the  discussion  they’d  been  having.  One  of  them  flicked  his  fan
open—it made a quick ripping sound—and delivered his conclusion: “Well,
in  the  end,  his  problem  is  simply  that  he  doesn’t  have  any  manners.”
Someone else snorted, and smiled sarcastically. “No manners, you say? He
sure knows how to kiss up to the bosses!”

A  middle-aged  couple  who  looked  very  much  like  brother  and  sister
stood  together  in  the  middle  of  the  tram,  holding  on  to  the  leather  straps.
“Careful!” she yelped. “Don’t get that on your trousers!” The man flinched,
then lifted his hand, dangling a parcel of smoked fish. He held the greasy
paper  parcel  with  gingery  care,  several  inches  out  from  his  trousers.  His
wife did not let up. “Do you know what dry cleaning costs these days? Or
what it costs to have new trousers made?”

Lu  Zongzhen,  accountant  for  Huamao  Bank,  was  sitting  in  the  corner.
When  he  saw  that  smoked  fish,  he  remembered  the  steamed  spinach  buns
that his wife had asked him to buy at a noodle stand near the bank. Women
are  always  like  that!  Buns  that  are  bought  in  the  hardest-to-find,  most
twisty-wisty of little alleys have to be the cheapest and the best. She didn’t
consider how it made him look—a man smartly dressed in dapper suit and
tie, with tortoiseshell glasses and a leather briefcase, and then, tucked under
his  arm,  these  steaming hot  buns wrapped  in  newspaper—how  ridiculous!
Still, if the city was sealed long enough to affect his dinner hour, the buns
would do, in a pinch.

He  glanced  at  his  watch;  it  was  only  four-thirty.  The  power  of
suggestion?  Already  he  felt  hungry.  He  loosened  one  corner  of  the  paper
wrapping  and  peeked  inside.  Snowy  white  mounds,  giving  off  soft  little
whiffs of sesame oil. A piece of newspaper had stuck to a bun, and gravely
he peeled it away; the ink had transferred to the bun, and the writing was in
reverse,  as  in  a  mirror.  He  pored  over  the  words  till  he  could  make  them
out: “Obituaries… Positions Wanted… Stock Market Developments… Now
Playing…”—all  normal,  useful  expressions,  though  funny,  somehow,  seen
on a bun. Eating, it seems, is serious business; it turns everything else, by

way of contrast, into a joke. Lu Zongzhen thought the words looked funny,
but  he  didn’t  laugh:  he  was  a  very  straightforward  fellow.  He  went  from
bun-print to newsprint, but after perusing half a page of old news, he had to
stop: if he turned the page, all the buns would fall out.

While Lu read his newspaper, the others did likewise. People who had
newspapers  read  newspapers;  those  who  didn’t  have  newspapers  read
receipts, or rules and regulations, or business cards. People who were stuck
without  a  single  scrap  of  printed  matter  read  shop  signs  along  the  street.
They  simply  had  to  fill  this  terrifying  emptiness—otherwise,  their  brains
might start working. Thinking is painful business.

Not  a  problem,  however,  for  the  old  man  across  from  Lu  Zongzhen,
clacking  two  polished  walnuts  around  and  around  in  his  hand:  a  rhythmic
little gesture can fill in for thought. The old man had a clean-shaven pate, a
ruddy yellow  complexion, and an oily sheen on his  face.  When his  brows
were  furrowed,  his  whole  head  looked  like  a  walnut.  And  his  brains  were
like walnut meat—sweet, slightly moist, and in the end, very bland.

To the old man’s right sat Wu Cuiyuan, who looked very much a young
Christian  wife,  even  if  she  was  unmarried.  She  wore  a  white  linen
cheongsam with narrow blue piping all around—the navy blue, next to the
white,  looked  like  the  dark  border  around  an  obituary—and  she  carried  a
little blue-and-white-checked parasol. Her hairstyle was utterly banal, afraid
of  attracting  attention.  Actually,  she  had  little  reason  to  be  afraid.  She
wasn’t  bad-looking,  but  hers  was  an  uncertain,  unfocused,  timid  kind  of
beauty,  always  trying  not  to  offend.  Her  whole  face  was  bland,  limp,
undefined:  even  her  own  mother  couldn’t  say  for  certain  whether  it  was
long or round.

At  home  she  was  a  good  daughter,  at  school  she  was  a  good  student.
After graduating from college, Cuiyuan had become an English instructor at
her alma mater. Now, with the city sealed off, she decided to make use of
the  time  by  grading  a  few  papers.  The  first  one  was  a  male  student’s.  It
railed against the evils of the big city, full of righteous anger, the prose stiff,
choppy,  ungrammatical.  “Lipstick-wearing  prostitutes…  cruising 
the
Cosmo… seedy bars and dance halls.” Cuiyuan paused for a moment, then
pulled out her red pencil and gave the paper an “A.” Ordinarily, she would
have  gone  right  on  to  the  next  one,  but  now,  because  of  all  this  time  for
thought, she couldn’t help wondering why she had given this student such a
high mark. If she hadn’t asked herself this question, she could have ignored

the whole thing, but once she did ask, her whole face flushed red. Suddenly
she  understood:  it  was  because  this  student  was  the  only  man  who,  with
perfect frankness, no qualms whatsoever, raised such topics with her.

He  treated  her like someone  who had been places and done things;  he
treated  her  like  a  man,  like  a  trusted  friend.  He  respected  her.  Cuiyuan
usually  felt  that  no  one  at  school—from  the  president  on  down  to  the
professors, the students, and even the janitors—respected her. The students’
griping  was  especially  hard  to  take:  “S.  U.  is  really  falling  apart—getting
worse  all  the  time!  A  Chinese  person  teaching  us  English  is  already  bad
enough, and this one’s a Chinese who’s never even been abroad…”

Cuiyuan  took  abuse  at  school,  and  she  took  abuse  at  home.  The  Wu
household was a modern, model household, devout and serious. The family
had pushed their daughter to study hard, to climb upward step by step, right
to the very top… A girl in her twenties teaching at a university! It set a new
record for women’s professional achievement. But her parents were losing
their enthusiasm; now they wished that she had slacked off a bit as a student
and worked harder at getting them a wealthy son-in-law.

She was a good daughter, a good student. All the people in her family
were  good  people.  They  took  baths  every  day;  they  read  the  newspaper
every day. When they turned on the radio, they never listened to local folk
opera,  comic  opera,  that  sort  of  thing,  just  symphonies  by  Beethoven  or
Wagner;  they  didn’t  understand  what  they  were  listening  to,  but  they
listened  anyway.  In  this  world,  there  are  more  good  people  than  real
people… Cuiyuan wasn’t very happy.

Life was like the Bible, translated from Hebrew to Greek, from Greek to
Latin,  from  Latin  to  English,  from  English  to  Mandarin  Chinese.  When
Cuiyuan  read  it,  she  translated  the  Mandarin  into  Shanghainese.  Some
things did not come through.

Cuiyuan put the student’s essay down and buried her chin in her hands.

The hot sun beat down on her back.

Sitting next to Cuiyuan was a nanny with a small child stretched out on
her  lap.  The  sole  of  the  child’s  foot  pushed  against  Cuiyuan’s  thigh.  Tiny
red cloth shoes, decorated with tigers, on a soft but tough little foot… this at
least was real.

A medical student who was also on the tram had taken out a sketch pad
and was carefully putting the last touches on a diagram of the human body.
The  other  passengers  thought  he  was  sketching  the  man  who  sat  dozing

across from him. Since they had nothing else to do, they crowded around,
clumping  together  in  threes  and  fours,  leaning  on  one  another  with  their
hands behind  their  backs, watching  the  man  sketching  from life.  The man
with the smoked fish whispered to his wife: “I can’t get used to this cubism,
this  impressionism,  that’s  so  popular  these  days!”  “Your  trousers!”  she
hissed.

The  medical  student  meticulously  wrote  in  the  name  of  every  bone,
nerve, muscle, and tendon. One of the office workers half covered his face
with a folding fan, and quietly informed his colleague: “That’s the influence
of Chinese painting. Nowadays, a bit of writing is often added to Western
art too— clearly a case of’Eastern ways spreading westward.’ ”

Lu  Zongzhen  didn’t  join  the  crowd;  he  stayed  in  his  seat.  He  had
decided  that  he  was  hungry.  With  everyone  gone,  he  could  comfortably
munch his spinach-stuffed buns. But then he looked up and glimpsed one of
his relatives, his wife’s cousin’s son, back in the third-class car. He deeply
disliked  this  Dong  Peizhi.  Peizhi  was  a  man  of  humble  origins  who
harbored  a  great  ambition:  to  marry  a  young  lady  of  means,  to  serve  as  a
starting  point  for  his  climb  to  the  top.  Lu  Zongzhen’s  eldest  daughter  had
just  turned  thirteen;  even  so,  she  had  caught  Peizhi’s  eye.  The  mental
calculations  he  had  made  pleased  him  no  end,  and  his  manner  grew  ever
more assiduous.

When  Lu  Zongzhen  caught  sight  of  the  young  man,  back  in  the  other
car,  he  gasped  softly  in  alarm,  afraid  that  Peizhi,  seeing  the  father  of  his
intended, might seize this golden opportunity to go on the attack. Trapped
in the same car with Dong Peizhi while the city was shut down—that would
be  unbearable!  Zongzhen  quickly  closed  his  briefcase,  wrapped  up  the
buns, and fled to a seat on the opposite side of the tram. Now Wu Cuiyuan,
sitting next to him, conveniently obstructed the view. There was no way his
nephew could see him.

Cuiyuan  turned  her  head  and  shot  him  a  look.  What  a  mess!  This
woman must think that he was making a pass, switching seats like that, for
no apparent reason. He recognized that look women get—face rigid as can
be,  not  a  trace  of  a  smile  in  the  eyes  or  on  the  lips,  not  even  in  the  little
hollows by the nose, and yet, somewhere, a trembling hint of a tiny smile
that is on the verge of breaking out. When a woman feels that she really is
very attractive, she just can’t help but smile.

But—damn  it!  Dong  Peizhi  had  spotted  him  after  all  and  was  coming
toward the first-class car, very self-deprecating, bowing even at a distance,
with  his  long,  red,  blushing  face,  and  his  long,  gray,  monkish  gown—a
chaste,  long-suffering  young  man,  the  perfect  social-climber  son-in-law.
Thinking  fast,  Zongzhen  decided  to  steal  a  page  from  Peizhi’s  book  and
move  in  on  an  opportunity.  So  he  stretched  one  arm  out  across  the
windowsill  behind  Cuiyuan,  soundlessly  announcing  his  flirtatious  intent.
He knew this would not scare Dong Peizhi into immediate retreat, because
in  Peizhi’s  eyes  he  already  was  a  dirty  old  man.  According  to  Peizhi,
everyone  over thirty was  old,  and everyone  who was  old  was  nasty. After
he’d  witnessed  Zongzhen’s  disgraceful  behavior,  Peizhi  would  feel
compelled to go and tell his wife all about it. Well, if she got riled up, that
was fine with him. Her fault for saddling him with a nephew like that. Let
her get angry—it would serve her right.

He didn’t care too much for this woman sitting next to him. Her arms
were  white,  true  enough—white  like  squeezed-out  toothpaste.  Her  whole
body was like squeezed-out toothpaste, no shape at all.

“Whenever  will  this  blockade  end?”  he  said  in  a  low,  smiling  voice.

“It’s awful!”

Cuiyuan jumped and turned to look at him, at which point she saw his
arm stretched out behind her. Her whole body froze. But come what may,
Zongzhen could not let himself pull that arm back. His nephew stood just
across the way, watching him with brilliant, glowing eyes and the hint of an
understanding  smile.  If,  at  this  moment,  he  looked  his  nephew  in  the  eye,
maybe  the  young  fool  would  get  scared  and  drop  his  gaze,  flustered  like
some sweet young thing; then again, Peizhi might give him a knowing wink
—who could tell?

Zongzhen gritted his teeth, and renewed the attack. “Aren’t you bored?
We could chat a bit, no harm in that! Let’s… let’s talk!” He couldn’t keep
the plaintiveness out of his voice.

Once  again,  she  was  startled  and  turned  to  look  at  him.  Now  he
remembered, he had seen her get on the tram—a striking image, thrown up
by  chance,  and  nothing  she  could  have  planned.  “You  know,  I  saw  you
getting on the tram,” he said softly. “In the window at the front of the tram,
there’s an advertisement with a piece torn out, and I saw part of your face,
just a bit of your chin, through the tear.” It was an ad for Lacova powdered
milk,  and  it  showed  a  fat  little  child.  Under  the  child’s  ear,  this  woman’s

chin had suddenly appeared; it was a little spooky, when you thought about
it.  “Then  you  looked  down  to  search  for  change  in  your  purse,  and  I  saw
your eyes, then your eyebrows, then your hair.” When you considered her
features  in  isolation,  one  after  another,  you  had  to  admit  she  did  have  a
certain charm.

Cuiyuan smiled. You’d never guess that this man could talk so sweetly
—he looked like such a respectable businessman! She looked at him again.
At  the  edges  of  his  nostrils,  the  cartilage  glowed  red  in  the  sunlight.  The
hand at the end of his sleeve, the hand that rested on the newspaper, was a
tanned, living hand—a real person! Not too honest, not too bright, but a real
person!  Suddenly  she  felt  flushed,  happy.  “You  shouldn’t  be  talking  like
that,” she murmured, and turned her face away.

“Huh?” Zongzhen had already forgotten what he’d said. His eyes were
fixed  on  his  nephew’s  back—that  tactful  young  man  had  decided  that
three’s  a  crowd,  and  he  didn’t  want  to  offend  his  uncle.  Anyway,  they’d
meet again, since they were such a close family, no knife sharp enough to
sever their ties; so Peizhi retreated to the third-class car. Once he was gone,
Zongzhen  withdrew  his  arm,  and  acted  like  a  respectable  man.  Casting
about for something to say, he glanced at the notebook lying on Cuiyuan’s
lap. “Shenguang University,” he read out. “Are you a student there?”

Did  he  think  she  was  so  young?  That  she  was  still  a  student?  She

laughed without answering.

“I graduated from Huaqi.” He repeated the name. “Huaqi.” On her neck
there  was  a  small,  dark  mole,  as  if  someone  had  given  her  a  sharp  pinch.
Zongzhen  rubbed  the  fingers  of  his  right  hand  across  the  nails  of  his  left,
absentmindedly.  He  coughed  slightly,  then  continued.  “What  field  are  you
in?”

Cuiyuan saw that he had moved his arm. She thought that his change of
attitude  had  come  in  response  to  the  subde  influence  of  her  own  fine
character,  and  that  she  therefore  owed  him  an  answer.  “Literature.  And
you?”

“Business.”  Suddenly  he  felt  their  conversation  was  getting  stuffy.
“When I was in school, I ran around joining student movements. Now that
I’m  out,  I  run  around  trying  to  earn  a  living.  I  can’t  say  I’ve  ever  studied
much.”

“Does your job keep you very busy?”

“Terribly  busy.  In  the  morning  I  take  the  tram  to  work,  and  in  the
evening  I  take  it  home,  but  I  don’t  know  why  I’m  going  to  work,  or  why
I’m going home! I’m not the least bit interested in my job. Sure, it’s a way
to earn money, but I don’t know who I’m earning it for!”

“Everyone has family to think of.”
“Oh, you don’t know—my family—” A short cough. “We’d better not

talk about it!”

“Here  it  comes!”  thought  Cuiyuan.  “His  wife  doesn’t  understand  him.
Every married man in the world seems to be in desperate need of another
woman’s understanding.”

Zongzhen  hesitated,  swallowed  hard,  and  forced  the  words  out:  “My

wife—she doesn’t understand me at all.”

Cuiyuan looked at him, and frowned to show her sympathy.
“I  don’t  know  why,  every  evening  when  the  time  rolls  around,  I  go
home.  What  home?  I  don’t  really  have  a  home.”  He  removed  his  glasses,
held  them  up  to  the  light,  wiped  off  the  moisture  with  his  handkerchief.
Another  little  cough.  “So—  I  just  have  to  keep  going  on,  and  try  not  to
think about it. I can’t start thinking about it!” Cuiyuan always felt a certain
revulsion when a nearsighted person removed his glasses in front of others.
It was indecent, like taking off your clothes in public.

“You—you  have  no  idea  what  this  woman  is  like!”  Zongzhen

continued.

“Then why, back then, did you…?”
“Even back then, I was against it. It was my mother who chose her. Of
course I wanted to choose for myself, but, well, she was very beautiful, and
I was quite young… a young man, you know…” Cuiyuan nodded.

“And  then  she  changed  into  this  kind  of  person.  She  even  got  into  a
huge fight with my mother, who turned around and blamed me for marrying
her! She has such a temper… she didn’t even make it through elementary
school.”

Cuiyuan couldn’t help saying, with a tiny smile, “You seem to think that
diplomas matter a lot! Education doesn’t make that much difference—for a
woman.” She didn’t know why she said that, hurting her own pride.

“Well of course, you can laugh about it because you’ve been to college.
You don’t know what kind of—” He stopped, breathing hard, and took off
the glasses he had just put back on.

“It can’t be that bad, now can it?” Cuiyuan said.

Zongzhen made a jerky, awkward gesture with the glasses in his hand.

“You don’t know what kind of—”

Cuiyuan responded quickly: “I know, I know.” She knew that if he and
his wife didn’t get along, it couldn’t be only his wife’s fault. He too was a
person  of  limited  intellect.  What  he  wanted  was  a  woman  who’d  forgive
him and accept him for what he was.

The  street  erupted  in  noise  as  two  trucks  full  of  soldiers  rumbled  by.
Cuiyuan and Zongzhen stuck their heads out to see what was going on; to
their surprise, their faces were drawn into sudden proximity. Seen near up,
anyone’s face is somehow different—tension-charged like a close-up on the
movie screen. Zongzhen and Cuiyuan suddenly felt they were seeing each
other for the first time. To his eyes, her face was the spare, simple peony of
a  watercolor  sketch,  and  the  strands  of  hair  fluttering  at  her  temples  were
pistils ruffled by a breeze.

He looked at her, and she blushed. When she let him see her blush, he

grew visibly happy. Then she blushed even more deeply.

Zongzhen had never thought he could make a woman blush, make her
smile, make her turn her face away, then turn it back again. In this he was a
man. Usually Zongzhen was an accountant, a father, a head of household, a
passenger  on  the  tram,  a  customer  in  the  store,  a  local  citizen.  But  to  this
woman who knew nothing about him, he was only and entirely a man.

They were in love. He told her all kinds of things: who at the bank was
his real friend, and who was just pretending; how his family squabbled; his
secret sorrows; his schoolboy dreams… unending talk, but she was not put
off.  A  man  in  love  likes  to  talk;  a  woman  in  love  changes  her  ways  and
doesn’t want to talk. She knows, without even knowing that she knows, that
after a man really understands a woman, he won’t love her anymore.

Zongzhen  was  sure  that  Cuiyuan  was  a  lovely  woman—pale,  wispy,
warm, like breath in winter. You don’t want her, and quietly she drifts away.
Being part of you, she understands everything, forgives everything. You tell
the truth, and her heart aches for you; you tell a lie, and she smiles as if to
say, “Go on—you’re just pulling my leg!”

Zongzhen  was  quiet  for  a  moment.  Then,  suddenly:  “I’m  thinking  of

marrying again.”

Cuiyuan  quickly  assumed  an  air  of  shocked  surprise.  “You  want  to

divorce your wife? You can’t do that, can you?”

“I can’t get a divorce. I have to consider my children’s happiness. My
oldest  daughter  is  thirteen  this  year  and  she’s  just  passed  the  secondary
school entrance exam, with a good score too.”

“What’s that got to do with it?” Cuiyuan thought.
“Oh,” she said aloud, and coldly, “you plan to take a concubine.”
“I  plan  to  treat  her  like  a  wife,”  said  Zongzhen.  “I’ll—I’ll  take  good

care of her. I won’t let her suffer in any way.”

“But,”  said  Cuiyuan,  “a  girl  from  a  good  family  won’t  want  to  be  a

concubine, will she? And so many legal problems…”

Zongzhen sighed. “Yes, you are right. I can’t do it. Shouldn’t have even

mentioned it… I’m too old. Thirty-five already.”

Cuiyuan spoke very deliberately. “Well, these days that’s not considered

old at all.”

Zongzhen was still. Finally he asked, “How… how old are you?”
Cuiyuan ducked her head. “Twenty-five.”
Zongzhen was silent for a while. “Are you available?” he finally asked.
Cuiyuan  didn’t  answer.  “You  aren’t,”  Zongzhen  said.  “And  even  if  you
were willing, your family would oppose it… that’s the problem, isn’t it?”

Cuiyuan pursed her lips. Her family—her prim and proper family—how
she  hated  them!  She’d  had  enough  of  their  lies.  They  wanted  her  to  find
them a wealthy son-in-law; Zongzhen didn’t have money but he did have a
wife. Well, if they got mad, that would be just fine with her! It would serve
them right!

The  tram  was  filling  up  again.  Apparently  the  people  outside  were
saying that the “all clear” would come any minute now. One after another,
the  passengers  got  on  and  sat  down;  they  squeezed  against  Zongzhen  and
Cuiyuan, forcing them to sit closer, then closer again.

Zongzhen and Cuiyuan wondered how they could have been so dense,
not sitting closer on their own. Zongzhen felt he was too happy—he had to
fight  against  it.  “No,  no,  it  just  won’t  work!”  His  voice  was  agonized.  “I
can’t let you sacrifice your future! You’re a fine person, with such a good
education…  and  I,  I  don’t  have  much  money.  I  can’t  ask  you  to  bury
yourself like that!”

Well,  of  course,  it  always  comes  down  to  money.  He  was  only  being
reasonable. “It’s over,” Cuiyuan thought. In the end she’d probably marry,
but  her  husband  could  never  be  as  dear  as  this  stranger  met  by  chance…
this man on a tram in the middle of a sealed-off city… it could never be this

natural again. Never again… oh, this man, he was so stupid! So very stupid!
All  she  wanted  was  one  small  part  of  him,  a  little  part  that  no  one  else
wanted. He was throwing away his own happiness. Such an idiotic waste!
She  wept,  but  it  wasn’t  a  gentle,  maidenly  weeping.  She  pretty  much  spit
the tears all over his face. He was a good man—the world had gained one
more good man!

What use would it be to explain things to him? A woman who has to use

words to touch a man’s heart is a sorry figure.

Once  Zongzhen  became  anxious,  he  couldn’t  get  any  words  out,  just
kept shaking the umbrella Cuiyuan was holding. She ignored him. Then he
tugged  at  her hand. “Hey—hey—there  are  people  here,  you know!  Don’t!
Don’t get so upset! Wait a bit, and we’ll talk it over on the telephone. Give
me your number.”

Cuiyuan  didn’t  answer.  He  pressed  her.  “You  have  to  give  me  your

telephone number.”

“Seven-five-three-six-nine.” Cuiyuan spoke as fast as she could.
“Seven-five-three-six-nine?”
She would not answer.
“Seven-five-three-six-nine,  seven-five…”  Mumbling  the  number  over
and over, Zongzhen searched his pockets for a pen, but the more frantic he
became, the harder it was to find one. Cuiyuan had a red pencil in her bag,
but she purposely did not take it out. He ought to remember her telephone
number;  if  he  didn’t,  then  he  didn’t  love  her,  and  there  was  no  point  in
continuing the conversation.

The  city  started  up  again.  “Ding-ding-ding-ding”  rang  the  bell.  Each
“ding”  was  a  small,  cold  dot:  dot  after  dot,  they  formed  a  line  that  cut
through space and time.

Cheers rippled through the vast city. The tram started clanking its way
forward. Zongzhen suddenly stood up, pushed into the crowd, disappeared.
Cuiyuan turned her head away, as if she didn’t care. He had gone. To her, it
was as if he were dead.

The tram picked up speed. On the evening street, a seller of curdled tofu
had set his shoulder pole down and lifted his rattle; eyes shut, he shook it
back and forth. A big-boned blonde with a straw hat slung across her back
bantered  with  an  Italian  sailor.  All  her  teeth  showed  when  she  grinned.
Cuiyuan’s  eyes  saw  them  and  they  lived,  lived  for  that  one  moment.  The
tram clanked onward, and one by one they died away.

Cuiyuan  shut  her  eyes  fretfully.  If  he  telephoned  her,  she  wouldn’t  be
able  to  control  her  voice;  it  would  be  filled  with  emotion  for  him,  a  man
who had died and come back to life again.

The  lights  inside  the  tram  went  on;  she  opened  her  eyes  and  saw  him
sitting in his old seat, looking remote. She trembled with shock—he hadn’t
gotten off the tram after all! Then she understood his meaning: everything
that had happened while the city was sealed off was a nonoccurrence. The
whole city of Shanghai had dozed off and dreamed an unreasonable dream.
The tramcar driver raised his voice in song: “Sad, sad, sad! No money
do  I  have!  Sad,  sad,  sad—”  An  old  beggar  woman,  thoroughly  dazed,
limped  across  the  street  in  front  of  the  tram.  The  driver  bellowed  at  her.
“Swine!”

RED ROSE, WHITE ROSE
THERE  were  two  women  in  Zhenbao’s  life:  one  he  called  his  white
rose, the other his red rose. One was a spotless wife, the other a passionate
mistress.  Isn’t  that  just  how  the  average  man  describes  a  chaste  widow’s
devotion to her husband’s memory—as spotless, and passionate too?

Maybe every man has had two such women—at least two. Marry a red
rose and eventually she’ll be a mosquito-blood streak smeared on the wall,
while the white one is “moonlight in front of my bed.” Marry a white rose,
and  before  long  she’ll  be  a  grain  of  sticky  rice  that’s  gotten  stuck  to  your
clothes; the red one, by then, is a scarlet beauty mark just over your heart.

But Zhenbao wasn’t like that; he was logical and thorough. He was, in
this respect, the ideal modern Chinese man. If he did bump into something
that was less than ideal, he bounced it around in his mind for a while and—
poof!—it was idealized: then everything fell into place.

Zhenbao had launched his career the proper way, by going to the West
to get his degree and factory training. He was smart and well educated, and
having  worked  his  way 
the  energy  and
determination of a self-made man. Now he held an upper-level position in a
well-known  foreign  textile  company.  His  wife  was  a  university  graduate,
and  she  came  from  a  good  family.  She  was  gentle  and  pretty,  and  she’d
never been a party girl. One daughter, age nine: already they’d made plans
for her college tuition.

through  school,  he  had 

Never had a son been more filial, more considerate, than Zhenbao was
to  his  mother;  never  was  a  brother  more  thoughtful  or  helpful  to  his
siblings. At work he was the most hardworking and devoted of colleagues;
to his friends, the kindest, truest, and most generous of men. Zhenbao’s life
was  a  complete  success.  If  he  had  believed  in  reincarnation—he  didn’t—
he’d  have  hoped  simply  to  pick  up  a  new  name,  then  come  back  and  live
the same life all over again.

Rich idlers laughed at Zhenbao and called him vulgar—literary youths
and  progressive  types  did  too.  But  since  he  was  vulgar  in  a  Western  way,
they  didn’t  really  hold  it  against  him.  Zhenbao  wasn’t  tall,  but  he  was
vigorous  and  quick.  He  had  a  soy-brown  face  and  wore  black-rimmed
glasses, with something peculiarly unresolved in his facial expression. His
posture  was  excellent  and  he  didn’t  joke  around—unless,  that  is,  it  was

 
appropriate to joke. He seemed frank and open, a man you could take in at a
glance—and  if  you  couldn’t  quite  pinpoint  the  sincerity  in  his  eyes,  those
eyeglasses were proof enough.

Zhenbao came from a poor family. If he hadn’t struggled to rise in the
world, he probably would have had to stand behind a counter in a shop, and
then his whole existence would have been one tiny round of ignorance and
stupidity.  Instead,  starting  in  on  his  new  job  after  his  studies  abroad,  his
window  opened  up  on  the  whole  world:  he  had  plenty  of  opportunities  to
look forward to and the benefits of an unfettered mind. An amazing degree
of freedom, all in all. And yet the average man’s life, no matter how good,
is  only  a  “peach  blossom  fan.”  Like  the  loyal,  beleaguered  beauty  in  the
story, you bang your head and blood drips on the fan. Add a few strokes of
ink, and the bloodstain becomes a peach blossom. Zhenbao’s fan was still
blank, but he had a dry brush, a wet inkstone, a sunny window, and a clean
table—all just waiting for him to lower his brush and begin.

That blank fan did have some hazy figures in the background, like the
images  of  people  in  old-fashioned  clothes  that  one  sees  printed  in  light
purple  ink  on  elegant,  mock-antique  stationery.  Before  the  wife  and
mistress, there had been two insignificant women.

The first was a Paris whore.
Zhenbao  had  studied  textile  manufacturing  at  a  school  in  Edinburgh.
Poor  students  don’t  have  a  chance  to  see  much  when  abroad,  and  all  that
Zhenbao  remembered  of  Britain  was  the  Underground,  cabbage,  fog,
hunger,  and  stuffing  himself  sick.  As  for  things  like  opera,  not  until  he
returned  home  to  Shanghai  did  he  have  an  opportunity  to  see  a  Russian
company  perform.  But  one  summer  he’d  laid  out  some  money,  taken  off
some  time,  and  gone  on  a  tour  of  the  Continent.  When  he  got  to  Paris,
naturally he wanted to see how very naughty the Parisians were, except that
he  didn’t  have  any  friends  who  knew  the  town  well  enough  to  show  him
around.  He  couldn’t  afford—and  didn’t  want—that  kind  of  friend.  So  he
plunged  in  all  on  his  own,  afraid  of  what  it  might  cost,  afraid  of  being
cheated too.

One evening in Paris, he found himself with nothing to do. He’d eaten
supper early and was walking to his lodgings in a quiet back street. “And all
my friends will think that I’ve really seen Paris,” he said to himself, almost
plaintively. The streetlamps had already been lit but overhead the sun still
shone, dropping bit by bit down to the roofs of the square cement buildings,

dropping farther and farther. The shimmering white of the roofs seemed to
be crumbling away. Zhenbao walked down the street, feeling forlorn. In one
of the houses someone was playing a piano with one hand, picking out the
notes:  Christmas  songs  played  very  slowly,  one  after  another.  Christmas
carols are joyful on Christmas Eve, but this was a summer afternoon on a
long  quiet  street  flooded  with  sunlight.  The  timing  felt  all  wrong,  like  a
dream  so  mixed-up  and  meaningless  that  it  was  almost  funny.  Zhenbao
didn’t know why, but he couldn’t bear the sound of that one-finger melody.
He  picked  up  his  pace;  his  hand  started  to  sweat  in  his  pocket.  He
walked quickly, but then the woman in front of him, wearing a black dress,
slowed down; she turned her head just a bit and gave him a glance. She was
wearing a red slip under her black lace dress. Zhenbao liked red lingerie. He
hadn’t  realized  that  a  woman  of  this  sort  would  be  in  this  neighborhood,
with a little hotel nearby.

Years  later,  when  Zhenbao  was  telling  the  story  to  friends,  he  would
adopt a mocking manner, happy but a tad rueful. “Before I went to Paris,”
he’d  say,  “I  was  just  a  boy!  I  really  ought  to  go  back  someday,  for  old
times’  sake.”  The  memory  should  have  been  a  romantic  one,  but  oddly
enough he couldn’t recall any of the romantic parts, only the upsetting ones.
Foreigners  always  have  more  body  odor  than  Chinese  people  do;  this
woman  couldn’t  stop  worrying  about  it.  He  noticed  how  she’d  half
consciously  raise  one  arm  and  turn  her  head  to  sniff.  The  armpits  of  her
clothing  were  sprayed  with  perfume;  cheap  perfume  mixed  with  armpit
odor and sour sweat made for a strange smell that he couldn’t get out of his
head. But what he hated most was her constant worrying. When she came
out of the bathroom in her slip, she rested her hand high on the wall, tilted
her head to the side, and smiled at him—but he knew that at some level she
was sniffing herself.

With  a  woman  like  this—even  with  a  woman  like  this!—though  he
could  spend  money  on  her,  he  couldn’t  be  her  master.  The  half  hour  he
spent with her filled him with shame.

There  was  another  detail  he  could  never  forget.  She  was  putting  her
clothes  back  on,  pulling  her  dress  over  her  head,  and  when  she  was  half
there, with the fabric still piled up around her shoulders, she stopped for a
moment  as  if  she’d  thought  of  something.  Right  then,  he  saw  her  in  the
mirror.  She  had  a  mass  of  tousled  blond  hair,  pulled  tight  by  the  dress  so
that  only  her  long,  thin  face  showed.  Her  eyes  were  blue,  a  blue  that  ran

down into the shadows under her eyes, while the eyes themselves were like
two transparent glass balls. It was a cold, severe, masculine face, the face of
an ancient warrior. Zhenbao was badly shaken.

When  he  came  out,  the  sun  was  still  shining,  with  the  shadows  of  the
trees  lying  crooked  in  the  sunlit  street.  This  too  was  not  right.  It  was
terrifying.

Whoring can be sleazy, low-class, filthy-miserable, and it won’t matter
—that  just  makes  it  all  the  earthier.  But  it  wasn’t  like  that,  not  this  time.
Later, when Zhenbao had figured out how to get what he wanted out of a
whore, he’d think back to that time in Paris, his first time, when he’d been
such a fool. Now he was the master of his own world.

From that day on, Zhenbao was determined to create a world that was
“right,” and to carry it with him wherever he went. In that little pocket-size
world of his, he was the absolute master.

Zhenbao lived in England for a considerable time. His factory internship
paid  a  stipend,  and  he  rustled  up  odd  jobs  on  the  side.  Once  he’d  made
himself  a  bit  more  comfortable,  financially  speaking,  he  acquired  a  few
girlfriends.  He  was  a  nice  fellow,  and  he  wanted  to  meet  a  nice  girl,  not
some  prostitute.  But  he  was  also  a  busy  man  who  couldn’t  spend  lots  of
time on courting; naturally he liked girls who were a little more forthright.
There were only a few Chinese girls in Edinburgh, two of them classmates
who  hailed  from  the  inland  provinces—he  found  them  too  affected,  too
churchy,  altogether  too  pious.  Nowadays  the  churches  have  become
something  of  a  social  scene,  with  quite  a  few  beauties  on  display,  but  ten
years ago, the fervent churchgoers who had love in their hearts weren’t, in
fact, lovely. The lively ones were the overseas Chinese; mixed-blood girls
went even farther.

Zhenbao met a girl named Rose. She was his first love, which is why he
also likened his two later women to roses. Rose’s father was a good-looking
English  businessman  who’d  lived  in  southern  China  for  many  years  and
then,  thanks  to  a  passing  fancy,  married  a  Cantonese  girl  and  brought  her
home to Edinburgh. The wife had to be living in the house still, but she was
practically invisible and never took part in social events. Rose attended an
English school, and because she wasn’t completely English she acted more
English than the English themselves. The English students liked to affect a
certain  dashing  indifference,  and  when  something  really  important  was  at
stake,  the  affectation  grew  even  stronger.  Zhenbao  couldn’t  figure  out

whether or not Rose really loved him; he, for his part, was rather dazzled.
They  both  liked  to  do  things  fast,  and  on  Saturday  nights  they  made  the
rounds of different dance halls. When they weren’t out on the dance floor,
but  just  sitting  around  and  talking,  Rose  never  seemed  to  pay  much
attention. She’d take out some matches and try to balance a glass on top of
them. Zhenbao was  supposed to  help.  That  was  Rose:  solemn  as could  be
when  she  was  horsing  around.  There  was  a  canary  at  her  place,  and
whenever  it  sang  she  thought  it  was  calling  to  her.  “Yes,  bird?”  she’d
answer right off, standing on tiptoe with her hands behind her back, and her
face tilted up toward the birdcage. Her tan face was long, not round like a
child’s, but at such moments she seemed remarkably childlike. She’d gaze
wide-eyed at the bird in the cage, the whites of her eyes tinged blue, as if
she were staring into deep blue skies.

Rose may have been the most ordinary of girls, but her very youth made
her  remarkably  hard  to  read.  Like  that  canary—calling  out  but  not  really
saying anything to anyone.

Her  short  skirt  ended  above  her  knees,  and  her  legs  were  light  and
nimble, as delicately made as wooden legs in a shop window; her skin was
as smooth and glistening as freshly planed and oiled wood. Her hair was cut
very short, shaved down to a little point at the nape of her neck. No hair to
protect  her  neck,  no  sleeves  to  protect  her  arms—Rose  did  not  watch  her
words,  and  her  body  was  open  for  the  taking.  She  was  carefree  with
Zhenbao,  and  he  put  that  down  to  her  being  innocent,  but  her  being  so
carefree  with  everyone  struck  him  as  slightly  nutty.  This  kind  of  woman
was common enough in foreign countries, but in China it would never do.
Marrying her, then transplanting her to his hometown—that would be a big
waste of time and money, not a good deal at all.

One evening he drove her home, as he often did. But this time it seemed
different  because  he  was  going  to  leave  England  soon  and  if  he  had
anything  to  say  he  should  have  said  it  by  now.  He  hadn’t.  Her  house  was
quite far from town. The faint black-and-white of the late-night road patted
their faces like a powder puff. The conversation in the car was desultory in
the  English  fashion,  starting  and  stopping  again.  Rose  knew  that  she  had
already lost him. Then, out of a kind of hopeless obstinacy, her heart caught
fire.  “Stop  here,”  she  said,  when  they  had  almost  reached  her  house.  “I
don’t want to let my family see us saying good-bye.” “I’d kiss you even in
front  of  them,”  Zhenbao  said,  smiling.  He  reached  out  to  wrap  his  arm

around  her  shoulder,  and  she  buried  her  face  into  his  chest.  The  car  kept
going—they  were  well  past  her  house  before  it  stopped.  Zhenbao  slid  his
hand under her velvet coat and pulled her toward him. Behind her aching-
cold  diamonds,  crinkly  silver  lace,  hundreds  of  exquisite  nuisances,  her
young body seemed to leap out of her clothes. Zhenbao kissed her, and tears
streamed  over  her  face  till  neither  of  them  could  tell  who  was  crying.
Outside  the  car,  a  damp,  limitless  fog  floated  in  the  wind.  Its  emptiness
sapped their strength, and all they could do was hang on to each other. Rose
clung to his neck, this way then that, trying to pull ever closer, wishing she
could fuse her body with his, press herself into it. Zhenbao was so confused
that he couldn’t think. He had never dreamed that Rose loved him so much;
he  could  have  done  whatever  he  wanted.  But…  this  would  not  do.  Rose,
after all, was a decent girl. This sort of thing was not for him.

Rose’s body leapt out of her clothes, leapt onto his body, but he was his

own master.

Afterward, even he was surprised by his self-control. He’d hardened his
heart and taken Rose home. Just before he left, he held her moist face, with
its sniffles and tears and quivering eyelashes that fluttered in his palms like
some  tiny  winged  creature.  In  later  days,  he’d  recall  this  experience
whenever  he  needed  to  rally  his  strength:  “If  you  could  control  yourself
then, in that situation, surely you can do so now.”

His behavior that evening filled him with astonishment and admiration,
and yet in his heart he felt regret. Without admitting it, he felt quite a lot of
regret.

He seldom mentioned the incident, but there was not one of his friends
who was unaware of Zhenbao’s reputation as a regular Liu Xiahui, a man
who could keep perfectly calm with a beautiful woman in his lap. Word had
gotten around.

Zhenbao’s  grades  were  excellent,  and  before  he’d  even  graduated  he
was offered a position at Great Beneficence, an English dyeing and weaving
company;  he  started  there  immediately  upon  his  return  to  Shanghai.
Zhenbao’s family home was in Jiangwan, quite far from his job, and at first
he stayed with some old family friends. But when his younger brother, Tong
Dubao,  finished  his  secondary  schooling,  Zhenbao made  arrangements for
Dubao to come and live with him, so he could help him with his studies; he
wanted Dubao to take the entrance exam for the technical school that was
affiliated with the Great Beneficence Dyeing and Weaving Company. They

couldn’t  both  stay  in  the  friends’  home;  that  would  be  too  great  an
imposition. As it happened, an old classmate of Zhenbao’s, Wang Shihong,
had  an  empty  room  in  his  place.  Wang  Shihong  had  been  abroad  and  had
come back to Shanghai two years before Zhenbao; now he was living in an
apartment on Ferguson Road. He and Zhenbao struck a deal—the room was
even furnished.

On  the  day  he  was  to  move  in,  Zhenbao  left  work  just  after  dusk.  He
and his brother were busy supervising the coolies as they carried the trunks
in,  and Wang Shihong  was  standing  arms akimbo in  the  doorway, when  a
woman walked in from the room behind. She was washing her hair, which
was all lathered up with shampoo, the white curls standing high on her head
like a marble sculpture. “While the workmen are here,” she said to Shihong,
holding  her  hair  with  her  hands,  “have  them  arrange  all  the  furniture  and
things. It’s no use asking our majordomo to help: he’ll just make excuses—
if he’s not in the mood he won’t do anything.”

“Let  me  introduce  everyone,”  said  Wang  Shihong.  “Zhenbao,  Dubao,

my wife. I believe you haven’t met yet?”

The  woman  withdrew  her  hand  from  her  hair  to  shake  hands  with  the
guests,  but  seeing  the  shampoo  on  her  fingers,  she  hesitated.  She  nodded
and  smiled  instead,  then  wiped  her  fingers  on  her  dressing  gown.  A  little
shampoo splashed the back of Zhenbao’s hand. Instead of rubbing it off, he
let  it  dry  there.  The  skin  puckered  up  slightly,  as  if  a  mouth  were  lightly
sucking at the spot.

Mrs. Wang turned and went back into the other room. Zhenbao directed
the workers as they moved the bed and wardrobe, but he felt troubled, and
the  sucking  sensation  was  still  there.  His  mind  wandered  as  he  headed  to
the bathroom to wash his hands, thinking about this Mrs. Wang. He’d heard
that  she  was  an  overseas  Chinese  from  Singapore  who,  when  she  was
studying  in  London,  was  quite  a  party  girl.  She  and  Wang  Shihong  got
married in London, but Zhenbao had been too busy to attend the wedding.
Seeing  her  was  much  better  than  hearing  about  her:  under  her  white,
shampoo-sculpted  hair  was  a  tawny  gold  face,  the  skin  glistening  and  the
flesh so firm that her eyes rose at a long upward slant, like the eyes of an
actress.  Her  striped  dressing  gown,  worn  without  a  belt,  hugged  her  body
loosely, and the black-and-white stripes hinted at her figure, each line, each
inch,  fully  alive.  People  like  to  say  that  the  wide,  long-sleeved  gowns  of
former  times  didn’t  flatter  curvaceous  beauties,  but  Zhenbao  had  just

discovered  that  this  was  not  the  case.  He  turned  on  the  faucet.  The  water
wasn’t very hot, though the water heater downstairs was certainly on, and
yet the lukewarm stream seemed to have a lighted wick running through it.
Twisting and winding, the water ran from the faucet, every inch of it alive,
while Zhenbao’s mind went running off to who knows where.

Wang  Shihong  heard  the  sound  of  running  water  and  came  into  the
bathroom. “Do you want to take a bath? The water never comes up hot in
this  bathroom.  The  hot  water  pipe  wasn’t  connected  properly.  That’s  one
bad  thing  about  this  apartment.  If  you  want  to  wash,  come  into  our
bathroom.”

“Oh  no,  please  don’t  bother,”  Zhenbao  said.  “Isn’t  your  wife  washing

her hair?”

“She must be finished by now. I’ll go and have a look.”
“Oh, really, it’s not that important.”
Wang Shihong went to speak with his wife, and his wife said, “I’m just

finishing. Tell the amah to draw him a bath.”

A little later, Wang Shihong told Zhenbao to bring his soap, towel, and
clothes  into  their  bathroom.  Mrs.  Wang  was  still  in  front  of  the  mirror,
struggling to get a comb through her tightly permed hair. The bathroom was
full of steam, and the night wind blew in through the open window. On the
floor, clusters of fallen hair swirled about like ghostly figures.

Zhenbao  stood  outside  the  door  holding  his  towel  and  watching  the
tangled hair, in the glare of the bathroom light, drifting across the floor. He
felt quite agitated. He liked women who were fiery and impetuous, the kind
you  couldn’t marry. Here  was  one who was  already a wife, and a friend’s
wife at that, so there couldn’t be any danger, but… look at that hair! It was
everywhere. She was everywhere, tugging and pulling at him.

The couple stood in the bathroom talking, but the water filling the tub
was loud and Zhenbao couldn’t hear what they said. When the tub was full,
they came out so he could take his bath. After his bath, Zhenbao crouched
down  and  started  picking  up  stray  hairs  from  the  floor  tiles  and  twisting
them together. The permed hair had turned yellow at the ends; it was stiff,
like fine electrical wire. He stuffed it into his pocket. His hand stayed there,
and  his  whole  body  tingled.  But  this  was  too  ridiculous.  He  extracted  the
hair from his pocket and tossed it into the spittoon.

Carrying his soap and towel, he returned to his own room—Dubao was
opening  the  trunks  and  arranging  things.  “What  kind  of  person  could  the

previous  tenant  have  been?”  Dubao  asked.  “Look,  here  under  the  chair
slipcovers, and under the carpet here—those have got to be cigarette burns!
And  these  marks  under  the  table—they  won’t  come  off.  Mr.  Wang  isn’t
going to blame us is he?”

“Of  course  not.  They  must  know  about  it  already.  Besides,  we’re
classmates from way back, so they won’t be as petty as you are!” Zhenbao
smiled.

Dubao  fell  silent.  Then  he  asked,  “Do  you  know  who  the  previous

tenant was?”

“His family name is Sun I think; he’s back from England, teaching at a

university now. Why do you ask?”

Dubao  smiled  before  he  spoke.  “Just  now  when  you  were  gone,  the
majordomo and the amah came to put up the curtains. They said something
about  not  knowing  how  long  we’ll  stay,  and  they  said  that  Mr.  Wang  had
wanted to kick out the man who lived here before. Mr. Wang was planning
to go to Singapore on business, and he should have left a long time ago, but
something  happened  and  he  got  nervous—he  wouldn’t  leave  till  the  other
fellow was out. Neither of them budged—not for two whole months.”

Zhenbao  told  him  to  shush.  “How  can  you  believe  such  nonsense!
When  you  live  in  someone’s  house,  the  first  rule  is  never  to  discuss  the
family  with  the  servants.  That  only  leads  to  trouble!”  Dubao  didn’t  say
anything more.

A bit later, the amah came to call them to dinner, and the brothers went
into  the  dining  room  together.  The  cooking  in  the  Wang  household  had  a
slightly  Southeast  Asian  flavor,  Chinese  food  prepared  Western  style,  and
the  main  dish  was  lamb  curry.  Mrs.  Wang  had  nothing  but  a  thin  slice  of
toast and a piece of ham in front of her. She even cut the fatty part off the
meat and gave it to her husband.

“Such a small appetite?” Zhenbao smiled.
“She’s afraid of getting fat,” said Shihong.
Zhenbao’s face expressed disbelief. “Mrs. Wang looks just right. She’s

not fat at all.”

“I’ve just lost five pounds, so I’m a lot thinner than I was,” she said.
Shihong  grinned  and  reached  over  to  pinch  her  cheek.  “A  lot  thinner?

Then what’s this?”

His  wife  gave  him  a  sharp  glance.  “That’s  the  London  lamb  I  ate  last

year.” Everyone laughed hard at this.

Even though the Tong brothers and Mrs. Wang had just met for the first
time,  their  hostess  hadn’t  bothered  to  change  before  coming  to  the  dinner
table. She was still in her dressing gown and her hair was still wet. A white
towel  was  wrapped  carelessly  around  it,  and  every  so  often  the  towel
dripped,  spangling  her  eyebrows.  Dubao  was  a  country  boy,  and  Mrs.
Wang’s free-and-easy ways struck him as strange indeed. But even Zhenbao
found her pretty remarkable. Mrs. Wang was extremely attentive, asking all
sorts of questions. She wasn’t very good at keeping house, that was clear,
but she did know how to entertain.

“I  haven’t  had  time  to  tell  you,”  Shihong  said  to  Zhenbao,  “but  I’m
leaving tomorrow. I have some business in Singapore. It’s good that you’ve
moved in and can take care of things here.”

“Mrs.  Wang  is  very  capable,”  Zhenbao  said  with  a  smile.  “She’ll  be
taking care of us, I’m sure. I very much doubt that it will be us taking care
of her.”

“Don’t be fooled by her chatter,” said Shihong. “She doesn’t understand
a thing. She’s been in China for three years now, but she still isn’t used to it
here, and she can’t really speak Chinese well.”

Mrs. Wang smiled slightly and didn’t disagree. She merely summoned
the  amah  to  fetch a bottle  of medicine from the  cabinet,  and poured out  a
spoonful. Zhenbao saw the thick liquid, like white paint, in the spoon, and
winced.  “Is  that  cream  of  calcium?  I’ve  taken  that  before—it  tastes
terrible.”

Mrs. Wang emptied the spoon down her throat. For a moment she was
speechless, but then she swallowed the medicine. “It’s like drinking a wall!”
she said. Zhenbao smiled again. “When Mrs. Wang talks, she hits the nail
right on the head!”

“Mr. Tong,” said Mrs. Wang, “don’t keep calling me Mrs. Wang.” She
got  up  and  went  over  to  a  desk  near  the  window.  It’s  true,  Zhenbao  was
thinking  to  himself,  the  name  “Mrs.  Wang”  is  just  too  commonplace.  She
sat at the desk, apparently writing something. Shihong went over to her, put
his hand on her shoulder, and bent down to ask, “You’re perfectly healthy,
so why are you taking doses of that?”

Mrs. Wang kept on writing, without turning her head. “The heat is rising

in my system—I’ve got a pimple on my face.”

“Where?” said Shihong, leaning his face close. She moved aside lightly,

frowning and smiling at once. “Hey there, hey there!” she warned him.

Dubao, raised in an old-fashioned family, had never seen a husband and
wife like this. He was unable to sit still and left to admire the scenery. He
opened  the  glass  door  and  walked  onto  the  balcony.  Zhenbao  went  on
peeling  an  apple  with  a  fair  degree  of  composure.  But  Mrs.  Wang  came
back across the room, and thrust a piece of paper at him. “There, I too have
a given name,” she said.

“The  way  you  write  Chinese  characters,  you  shouldn’t  show  them

around,” Shihong said with a smile. “People will just laugh.”

When  Zhenbao  saw  the  three  crooked  words  on  the  paper,  each  one
bigger  than  the  last,  and  the  last  one  breaking  apart  into  three  distinct
fragments—wang jiAO RUI—he really had to laugh.

“I told you people would laugh, didn’t I?” Shihong said with a clap of

his hands.

“No,  no,”  said  Zhenbao,  controlling  himself.  “Really  it’s  a  pretty

name!”

“Those overseas Chinese—the names they pick never have any style,”

said Shihong.

Pouting,  Jiaorui  grabbed  the  piece  of  paper  and  crumpled  it  up.  She
turned on her heels and walked off, seemingly in a huff. Not thirty seconds
later  she  came  back  with  an  open  jar  of  candied  walnuts,  which  she’d
already started to eat, and she offered them to Zhenbao and Dubao.
“I thought you were afraid of getting fat!” laughed Shihong.
“It’s true,” said Zhenbao. “Sweets are very fattening.”
“You  don’t  know  about  those  overseas  Chinese,  they—”  Shihong
started to say, but Jiaorui hit him. “It’s always ‘they, them, those overseas
Chinese’!” she said. “Don’t call me ‘them’!”

Shihong  went  right  on.  “They  have  the  bad  habits  of  the  Chinese  and
the  bad  habits  of  foreigners  as  well.  From  the  foreigners  they  learn  to  be
afraid of getting fat, won’t eat this, won’t eat that, always taking purgatives
but  can’t  stop  eating  sweets.  But  then—go  ahead,  just  ask  her!  If  you  ask
her  why  she’s  eating  this,  she’ll  say  she’s  had  a  little  cough  recently,  and
candied walnuts are good for a cough.”

“That  really  is  the  old  Chinese  way,”  Zhenbao  said  with  a  smile.

“Anything you like to eat is, of course, good for something.”

Jiaorui picked up a walnut and slid it between her teeth. She pointed her

little finger at Zhenbao. “Stop that now—there really is some truth to it!”

To  Zhenbao,  she  seemed  drunk.  Fearing  the  kind  of  faux  pas  that  so
often  follows  drink,  he  mumbled  something  inconsequential  and  strolled
onto the balcony. The breeze was cool on his skin: most likely his face had
been  pretty  red  a  moment  before.  Now  he  was  even  more  troubled.  He’d
just put an end to his relationship with Rose, and here she was again, in a
new body, with a new soul—and another man’s wife. But this woman went
even further than Rose. When she was in the room, the walls seemed to be
covered with figures in red chalk, pictures of her half naked, on the left, on
the right, everywhere. Why did he keep running into this kind of woman?
Was it his fault that he always reacted the way he did? Surely that couldn’t
be. After all, there really weren’t many women of this sort, not among the
pure Chinese. He’d just returned to China, so he was running with the half-
Chinese,  half-Western  crowd.  Any  Chinese  he  met  while  abroad  was  “an
old friend found in a faraway land.” When he returned home and saw those
“old  friends”  again,  the  first  time  they  met  they  were  bosom  friends,  the
second time mere acquaintances, and by the third time they were strangers
to each other.

And yet, when it came to this Wang Jiaorui, hadn’t Shihong done pretty
well  for  himself  by  marrying  her?  Of  course,  Wang  Shihong’s  father  had
money;  if  a  man  had  to  forge  ahead  on  his  own,  as  Zhenbao  did,  such  a
woman would be a major impediment. And he wasn’t easygoing like Wang
Shihong, who let a woman flout every rule. What was the point if you had
to argue all day long? That was sure to sap a man’s energy and drain him of
ambition.  Of  course…  she  was  like  this  precisely  because  her  husband
couldn’t control her; if Wang Shihong had managed to get a handle on her,
she wouldn’t be quite so unruly.

Zhenbao leaned on the railing, his arms folded. Down below, an electric
tram with a brightly burning lamp stopped at the entrance of the building.
Several people got on and off, and the lamp moved away. Wide and quiet,
the  street  stretched  beyond him;  the  only  light  was  from a little restaurant
on the first floor. Two leaves skittered by in the wind like ragged shoes not
worn by anyone, just walking along by themselves. So many people in the
world—but  they  won’t  be  coming  home  with  you.  When  night  fell  and
silence took over—or when, as could happen at any time, you stood at the
brink  of  death—there  in  the  dark,  you  needed  a  wife  you  really  loved,
otherwise there would be nothing but loneliness. Zhenbao didn’t think this
through clearly, but he was overwhelmed by a sense of foreboding.

Shihong and his wife were chatting as they walked onto the balcony. “Is
your  hair  dry?”  Shihong  asked.  “If  you  stand  in  the  breeze  your  cough  is
going to get worse.”

“It doesn’t matter,” said Jiaorui, unwrapping the towel and shaking out

her hair.

Zhenbao figured that since Shihong was leaving the next day, the couple
would want to speak in privacy. Raising a hand to disguise a forced yawn,
he said, “We’ll go to bed now. Dubao has to get up very early tomorrow so
he can go to school and get a student handbook.”

“I’m leaving in the afternoon,” Shihong said, “so I probably won’t see
you.”  The  two  men  shook  hands  and  said  good-bye.  Zhenbao  and  Dubao
went to their room.

The  next  day,  when  Zhenbao  came  back  from  work  and  pressed  the
doorbell, Jiaorui opened the door, phone receiver in hand. It was dim in the
hallway, which made it hard to see, but Shihong’s hat and coat were gone
from  the  coatrack,  along  with  the  leather  suitcase  that  had  been  under  the
rack.  He  must have left  already.  Taking  off  his  coat  and hanging  it on the
rack, Zhenbao heard Jiaorui dial a phone number in the other room. “Please
ask  Mr.  Sun  to  come  to  the  phone,”  she  said.  Zhenbao  listened.  He  heard
her ask, “Is this Timmy? No, I’m not going out today, I’m at home waiting
for  a  boyfriend.”  She  started  to  giggle.  “Who  is  he?  I’m  not  telling  you.
Why should I tell you?… Ah, so you’re not interested? Not even interested
in yourself, are you… Anyway, I’m waiting for him to come for tea at five
o’clock. I’m waiting specially for him, so don’t come over.”

Zhenbao went to his room without waiting for her to finish. His brother
wasn’t there, or in the bathroom either. He went out to see if he was on the
balcony,  and  Jiaorui  emerged  from  the  living  room  to  greet  him.  “Dubao
asked me to tell you that he’s making the rounds of the used bookstores to
see if he can find some books.”

“Oh,  thank  you,”  said  Zhenbao.  He  took  a  good  long  look.  She  was
wearing a long dress that trailed on the floor, a dress of such intense, fresh,
and  wet  green  that  anything  it  touched  turned  the  same  color.  When  she
moved a little, the air was streaked with green. The dress had been cut a bit
too small, it seemed: the seams along the side were split open an inch and a
half, then laced together, in a crisscross pattern, over a green satin strip that
didn’t  fully  cover  a  startling  pink  slip.  Looked  at  too  long,  those  eye-

popping colors would prove blinding. Only Jiaorui could wear a dress like
that with such utter insouciance.

“Would  you  like  some  tea?”  she  asked,  turning  back  into  the  living
room. She sat down at the table, and lifted the pot to pour the tea. The table
was set for two, with a plate of butter biscuits and toast. Zhenbao stood by
the glass door.

“Isn’t there a guest coming?”
“We won’t wait for him. Let’s go ahead and have something to eat.”
Zhenbao hesitated, unable to figure out what she had in mind. Then, just

for the time being, he sat down.

“Do you take milk?” Jiaorui asked.
“Either way.”
“Oh,  that’s  right,  you  like  green  tea.  You  were  abroad  so  many  years

and couldn’t get it there—that’s what you said yesterday.”

“You have a good memory.”
Getting up to ring the bell, Jiaorui threw him a glance. “No, you don’t

know. Usually my memory is terrible.”

Zhenbao’s  heart  jumped,  and  he  was  knocked  off  balance.  The  amah

came in. “Make two cups of green tea,” Jiaorui ordered.

“Ask  her  to  bring  another  teacup  and  plate  while  she’s  at  it,”  said

Zhenbao, “for the guest who’s coming later.”

Jiaorui gave him a sharp look. “Who is this guest that you’re so anxious
about? Amah, bring me a pen and a piece of paper.” She dashed off a note,
then  pushed  it  across  to  Zhenbao.  Two  lines,  simple  and  succinct:  Dear
Timmy,  So  very  sorry,  but  I  have  something  to  do  today.  I’ve  gone  out.—
Jiaorui. She folded the paper over and gave it to the amah. “Mr. Sun will
come in a little while. When he does, give this to him and tell him I’m not
home.”

The amah went out. Zhenbao took a biscuit. “I don’t understand you,”
he said. “Why go to so much trouble, asking a man to come to your house,
then turn him away empty-handed?”

Jiaorui leaned forward, carefully considering the selection of biscuits on
the  plate,  but  she  couldn’t  find  any  that  she  liked.  “When  I  asked  him  to
come I didn’t plan to turn him away.”
“Oh? A last-minute decision?”
“Don’t you know the saying? It’s a woman’s prerogative to change her

mind.”

The amah brought the green tea, leaves floating all over the surface of
the water. Zhenbao held the glass in both hands without drinking. His eyes
were  fixed  on  the  tea  but  his  mind  was  elsewhere,  working  things  out.
Jiaorui was still carrying on with that Mr. Sun behind her husband’s back,
and evidently she was worried that Zhenbao would see what was going on.
That’s why she’d put on this sweet act today. She wanted to win him over
so  he’d  keep  his  mouth  shut.  But  in  fact  Zhenbao  had  no  intention  of
interfering in their private lives. It wasn’t that his bond with Wang Shihong
was  too  weak—even  if  they’d  been  blood  brothers,  stirring  up  disputes
between a husband and wife was not his style. Even so, this woman could
cause a lot of trouble. Zhenbao redoubled his caution.

Jiaorui set down her tea glass and rose to get a jar of peanut butter from

the cabinet. “I’m a trashy person, and I like to eat trashy things.”

“Oh, my! This stuff is very rich, very fattening!”
Jiaorui took off the lid. “I love breaking the rules. Don’t you approve of

rule-breaking?”

Zhenbao put his hand on top of the glass jar. “No.”
Jiaorui  hesitated  for  a  long  moment.  Then  she  said,  “How  about  this?

You put some on the bread for me. I’m sure you won’t give me too much.”

Her  expression  was  so  pitiful  that  he  couldn’t  help  laughing.  Zhenbao
spread  peanut  butter  on  the  bread.  Jiaorui  watched  him  closely  over  the
edge of her cup, pursed her lips, and laughed. “Do you know why I had you
do it for me? If I did it myself, all of a sudden I might turn conscientious
and spread it as thin as possible. But I know that you’d feel bad if you only
gave  me  a  little!”  At  this  they  both  laughed.  Unable  to  resist  Jiaorui’s
childlike charm, Zhenbao gradually softened.

As  they  were  drinking  their  tea,  the  doorbell  sounded.  Zhenbao  got
restless.  For  the  third  time  now  he  asked,  “Is  that  the  guest  you  invited?
Don’t you feel embarrassed?” Jiaorui shrugged.

Taking his glass with him, Zhenbao went out to the balcony. “When he

comes back through the door, I want to see the kind of person he is.”

“Him?” said Jiaorui, following behind. “Very pretty. Too, too pretty.”
“You don’t like pretty men?” said Zhenbao, leaning against the railing.
“Men  should  not  be  pretty.  Men  get  spoiled  even  more  easily  than

women do.”

Zhenbao  lowered  his  eyelids,  then  looked  at  her.  “You  shouldn’t  talk

about others,” he said with a smile. “You’ve been terribly spoiled.”

“Maybe.  But  you’re  just  the  opposite.  You  deny  yourself  when  in  fact

you like to eat and play around as much as I do.”

“Really?” Zhenbao laughed. “And you know all about it!”
Jiaorui looked down and started picking tea leaves out of her glass. She
kept picking away, until at last she took a sip. Zhenbao too drank his tea in
silence.

A  little  while  later,  a  man  in  a  Western  suit  came  out  of  the  building.
Zhenbao couldn’t see much from the third floor, but it looked like the man
rushed around the corner, his body tense with anger.

“Poor  guy,”  Zhenbao  couldn’t  help  saying.  “He  came  all  this  way  for

nothing!”

“So what? He has nothing to do all day long! I too have nothing to do,
but I have no respect for people like me. What I like most is to wrest a bit of
time from a man who’s already very busy—the way a tiger seizes its prey.
Pretty despicable, don’t you think?”

Zhenbao was leaning against the railing. He tapped his foot against the
railing and then,  bit by bit, not  entirely intentionally, he started  kicking at
her  rattan  chair.  When  the  chair  shook,  the  flesh  on  her  arm  trembled
slightly.  She  wasn’t  fat  at  all,  but  because  of  her  small  frame  she  seemed
plump. “So you like busy men?” Zhenbao smiled.

Jiaorui  hid  her  eyes  with  her  hand.  “Actually,  it  doesn’t  matter.  My

heart’s an apartment.”

“So—is there an empty room for rent?” Jiaorui didn’t answer. “I’m not

used to living in an apartment. I want to live in a single-family house.”

She gave a little grunt of disbelief. “Well,” she said, “let’s see if you can

tear one down and build the other!”

Zhenbao gave her chair a good hard kick. “Just watch me!”
Jiaorui took her hand from her eyes and gave him a long look. “You’re

wicked!”

“Can’t help myself, with you.”
“Come on, be serious,” Jiaorui said. “Why don’t you tell me something

about your past.”
“What past?”
Jiaorui’s  leg  swept  out,  almost  spilling  the  tea  in  his  hand.  “Faker!  I

already know all about it.”

“If you know, why ask? Wouldn’t it be better if you told me something

about your past?”

“My  past?”  She  leaned  her  head  to  one  side  and  rubbed  her  cheek  on
her  shoulder.  After  a  long  moment’s  silence,  she  softly  said,  “There  isn’t
much to tell.” There was another long silence.

“Well  then,  please  tell,”  Zhenbao  urged.  But  Jiaorui  fell  into  thought
and said nothing, her eyes fixed straight ahead. “How did you and Shihong
meet?” he asked.

“In  a  very  ordinary  way,”  she  said.  “The  student  associations  held  a

meeting in London. I was a representative and so was he.”

“Were you at the University of London?”
“My family sent me to London to study, but the real reason was to find
a suitable husband. I was quite young and had no wish at all to get married,
but  I  used  this  as  an  excuse  to  escape  from  home  and  have  a  good  time.
After a few years of having a good time, my reputation wasn’t all that good,
so I looked around and grabbed this Shihong fellow.”

Zhenbao kicked her chair lightly. “And you still haven’t had enough of

the good times?”

“It’s not a question of having enough or not. Once you’ve learned to do

something, you can’t just put it aside and give it up.”

“Don’t forget that you’re in China now,” Zhenbao said with a smile.
Jiaorui  finished  her  tea  in  one  swallow,  stood,  and  spat  the  tea  leaves
over the railing. “In China, you have Chinese freedoms: you can spit on the
street if you want.”

The doorbell rang again, and Zhenbao guessed that it was his brother. It

was in fact Dubao, and now that he was back, things took a different turn.

Later  on,  Zhenbao  reviewed  the  whole  scene  in  his  mind.  Out  on  the
dusky balcony  he hadn’t been able  to  see her clearly;  he’d only  heard  her
soft voice secretly rustling, tickling his ear like a breath. There in the dark,
her heartrending body slipped out of his mind for a moment, and he had a
chance  to  see  what  else  there  was  to  her.  She  seemed  smart  and
straightforward, but with the emotions of a still-maturing girl—even though
she  was  a  wife  already.  That,  for  him,  was  her  most  appealing  feature.
There was a danger here, a danger much greater than simple lust. He could
not, must not, get serious about her! It would only be looking for trouble.
Maybe…  maybe  it  was  just  her  body  after  all.  When  a  man  yearns  for  a
woman’s  body,  then  starts  to  care  about  her  mind,  he  fools  himself  into
believing that he’s in love. Only after possessing her body can he forget her
soul. This may be the only way to free himself. And why not? Jiaorui had a

lot  of  lovers—one  more  or  one  less  wouldn’t  make  much  difference.  He
couldn’t  pretend  that  Wang  Shihong  wouldn’t  care,  but  then  again  it
wouldn’t make things any worse than they already were, for him.

Suddenly,  Zhenbao  realized  that  he  was  digging  for  reasons  to  justify
sleeping with this woman. He was mortified, and resolved to avoid her from
this point on. He would look for another place to live. As soon as he found
something, he would move. Zhenbao asked someone to help him get a bed
for his brother in the dormitory at the technical school. With only himself to
look  after,  things  were  easy  to  arrange.  He’d  been  taking  his  lunches  at  a
restaurant near the office; now he went out for dinner too. He stayed away
until late at night and went straight to bed.

But  one  night  the  phone  rang  for  a  long  time,  and  no  one  picked  up.
Zhenbao  had  just  run  out  of  his  room  to  get  it  when  he  thought  he  heard
Jiaorui’s  door  opening.  Afraid  of  running  into  her  in  the  dark  hallway,  he
beat a retreat. Jiaorui was groping around in the dark, seemingly unable to
find the phone, and since Zhenbao was right by the light switch, he turned it
on.  He  was  stunned  when  he  saw  Wang  Jiaorui  in  the  light.  She  was
wearing  pajamas  made  out  of  a  sarong  fabric  often  worn  by  overseas
Chinese  in  Southeast  Asia,  and  it  looked  like  she  had  just  come  from  her
bath. The design on the fabric was so heavy and dark that he couldn’t tell
whether it was snakes and dragons, or grasses and trees, the lines and vines
all tangled up together, black and gold flecked with orange and green. Night
deepened  in  the  house.  The  dim  lamp-lit  hallway  felt  like  a  train  car
traveling from one strange place to another. On the train you meet a woman
quite by accident—a woman who could be a friend.

Jiaorui lifted the receiver with one hand, the other hand searching along
her  side  to  find  a  little  golden  peach-stone  button  and  slip  it  through  its
loop.  She  couldn’t  get  it  to  button  properly.  Zhenbao  didn’t  see  anything,
but he was shaken. His heart hung in midair. Jiaorui had turned sideways,
and  swept  her  loose,  uncombed  hair  back  across  her  shoulders.  Her  face
was  shadowy  and  golden,  like  an  idol’s;  her  lowered  eyelashes  cast  long
shadows that touched her cheek like the fingers of a small hand. She’d been
in  such  a  hurry  that  she’d  lost  one  of  her  leather  slippers.  The  bare  foot
rested on the slippered one.

Zhenbao noticed a trace of heat-rash powder on her ankle. Jiaorui hung
up the phone. It was a wrong number. She stood there unsteadily, then sank
into  a  chair,  the  phone  still  in  her  hand.  Zhenbao  put  his  hand  on  the

doorknob to show that he didn’t intend to chat. He nodded. “How is it that I
haven’t  seen  you  lately?”  he  said.  “I  thought  you’d  melted  away  like
candy.” He knew, of course, that it was he who’d been avoiding her, not the
other way around, but jumping in before she’d had a chance to speak was a
form  of  self-defense.  It  was  tiresome,  no  doubt,  but  when  he  saw  her,  he
had to flirt. Some women are like that.

“Am  I  so  sweet?”  she  replied  nonchalantly,  feeling  around  for  her

slipper with her bare foot.

“I don’t know,” Zhenbao replied boldly. “Haven’t tasted.”
Jiaorui  gave  a  little  laugh.  She  still  couldn’t  find  the  slipper,  and
Zhenbao  couldn’t  stand  it  anymore.  He  walked  over  and  leaned  down  to
pick it up for her, but just then her foot slipped in.

Now  he  was  embarrassed.  “Where  have  your  servants  gone?”  he

demanded, for no reason.

“An  old  hometown  neighbor  came  to  visit  the  majordomo  and  amah,

and the three of them went off to the Cosmo to have some fun.”

“Oh.” Then, with a smile, he said, “Aren’t you afraid of being alone in

the house?”

Jiaorui  stood  up.  Her  slippers  scuffed  along  as  she  went  toward  her

room. “Afraid of what?”

“You’re not afraid of me?”
“What?”  she  said  without  turning  her  head.  “I’m  not  afraid  of  being

alone with a gentleman!”

Now Zhenbao leaned back against the doorknob, his hand behind him,
as  if  he  had  no  intention  of  leaving.  “I’ve  never  pretended  to  be  a
gentleman.”

“A real gentleman doesn’t need to pretend.” She had opened her door,
but  then  reached  back  to  flick  off  the  hall  light.  Zhenbao  stood  in  the
darkness, thoroughly shaken. In spite of his excitement, she was gone.

Zhenbao  tossed  and  turned  all  night,  telling  himself  that  it  wouldn’t
matter, that Jiaorui and Rose were not the same, that a married woman who
did  what  she  liked  was  the  loosest  of  women,  that  he  didn’t  owe  her
anything.  But  he  felt  a  sense  of  duty  toward  himself.  When  he  thought
about Rose, he thought of that night in the car in the open fields when his
conduct had been so sterling: How could he shrug off the man he’d shown
himself to be?

Two weeks passed, and all at once the weather turned warm. Zhenbao
went to work in his shirtsleeves, but before long it started to sprinkle and a
chill  blew  in.  He  went  back  during  his  lunch  break  to  get  his  coat.  It  had
been hanging on the rack in the hall, but now it was gone. He searched and
searched  for  it  and  eventually  he  started  to  worry.  He  saw  that  the  living
room  door  had  been  left  ajar.  He  pushed  it  open  and  there  was  his  coat,
hooked  on  the  frame  of  an  oil  painting:  Jiaorui  was  sitting  on  the  sofa
beneath,  quietly  lighting  a cigarette.  Surprised, Zhenbao quickly retreated,
squeezing himself out of sight. But he couldn’t resist taking another peek.
Jiaorui,  it  turned  out,  wasn’t  smoking  at  all.  There  was  an  ashtray  on  the
arm of the sofa, and she struck a match, lit the stub of an old cigarette, and
watched  it  burn  all  the  way  down.  When  at  last  it  singed  her  fingers,  she
threw  the  butt  aside,  lifted  her  fingers  to  her  mouth  and  blew  on  them
lightly,  a  look  of  utter  contentment  on  her  face.  The  cloisonne  ashtray,  he
realized, was from his room.

Zhenbao  was  bewildered,  and  he  slipped  away  like  a  thief.  It  seemed
incomprehensible  at  first,  and  even  after  thinking  it  through,  he  was
mystified:  Jiaorui,  smitten,  sitting  near  his  coat  and  letting  the  cigarette
scent from his clothes waft down over her. As if that weren’t enough, she’d
lit his used cigarette butts… she really was a child, spoiled rotten, someone
who’d  always  gotten  whatever  she  wanted,  and  now  that  she’d  run  into
someone with an ounce of resistance, she dreamed only of him. The mind
of  a  child  and  the  beauty  of  a  grown  woman:  the  most  tempting  of
combinations. Zhenbao could no longer resist.

He  still  ate  dinner  in  a restaurant and arranged  to  meet  several friends
there, but the longer he sat in the crowd the more insipid he found the talk,
the  more  detestable  the  company.  He  was  impatient  throughout  the  meal,
and afterward he jumped on a bus to go back to the apartment. Jiaorui was
playing the piano: “Shadow Waltz,” a tune popular at the time. Hands thrust
into his pockets, Zhenbao paced the balcony. The lamp on the piano lit up
Jiaorui’s face; he had never seen her looking so peaceful. Zhenbao hummed
along  with  the  piano,  but  she  seemed  not  to  hear;  she  just  kept  playing,
beginning a new tune. Zhenbao didn’t have the courage to sing. Standing in
the  doorway,  he  watched  Jiaorui  for  a  long  time,  tears  welling  up  in  his
eyes,  because  he  and  she  were  really  in  the  same  place  now,  two  people
together, body and soul. He wished that she’d look up and see his tears, but
instead she kept on playing. Zhenbao started to worry. He came over to turn

the pages, intending to distract her. She paid no attention. She wasn’t even
looking at the music, she knew it all by heart and was focusing only on the
unhurried  flow  of  it  from  the  tips  of  her  fingers.  Suddenly  Zhenbao  was
angry and afraid. It was as if there were no connection between them. He
sat down next to her on the piano bench, put his arm around her, and pulled
her close. The music stopped abruptly; she tilted her face—all too skillfully.
They kissed. Zhenbao’s passion mounted. With a deafening crash he pushed
her down onto the keyboard. There was a chaotic tempest of sound. Surely
this was different from all the other times she’d been kissed.

Jiaorui’s  bed  was  too  fancy  for  Zhenbao;  he  didn’t  sleep  well  on  the
thick bedding. Even though he rose early, he still felt as if he’d overslept.
Combing his hair he found a sliver of clipped fingernail, a tiny red crescent
moon.  She’d  scratched  him  with  her  long  nails;  as  he  was  drifting  off  to
sleep,  he’d  seen  her  sitting  on  the  bed  clipping  them.  Had  there  been  a
moon that night? He hadn’t checked, but it must have been a red crescent
moon.

After  that,  he  came  straight  home  after  work,  sitting  on  the  top  of  a
double-decker  bus  and  facing  the  setting  sun,  the  windowpane  a  sheet  of
light as the bus roared toward the sun, toward his happiness, his shameful
happiness.  How  could  it  not  be  shameful?  His  woman  ate  another  man’s
rice, lived in another man’s house, went by another man’s name. But feeling
that he shouldn’t be doing this only made his happiness more perfect.

It was if he’d fallen from a great height. An object that falls from high
above is many times heavier than its original weight. Jiaorui, struck by that
startlingly great weight, was knocked dizzy.

“I really love you,” she said. But she was mocking him still, just a little.
“Want  to  know  something?  Every  day,  when  I  sit  here  waiting  for  you  to
come  back,  I  hear  the  elevator  slowly  clanking  its  way  up.  When  it  goes
past  our floor without stopping, it feels like my  own heart’s gone up, that
it’s just hanging in midair. But when the elevator stops before it reaches our
floor, it seems like my breath’s been cut off.”

“So—there’s an elevator in your heart. It looks as though your heart is

still an apartment.”

Jiaorui smiled gently, then walked over to the window and looked out,
hands clasped behind her back. After a moment, she said, “The house that
you wanted has been built.”

At  first  Zhenbao  didn’t  understand;  when  he  did,  he  was  staggered.
He’d never been one to fool around with words, but now he tried something
new.  Taking  a  pen  from  the  desk,  he  wrote  “Happy  heartwarming!  Many
congratulations on your new home!” And yet he couldn’t really say that he
was pleased. The thrill of pleasure had made his whole body sing, but all at
once  it  was  quiet.  Now  there  was  only  a  desolate  calm;  he  felt  sated  and
empty at the same time.

When  they  embraced  again,  Jiaorui  wrapped  herself  around  him,  she
held him so tightly that she blushed. “It’s the same, isn’t it, even if there’s
no love? If I could be like this with you, without any real feeling of love,
you’d certainly lose all respect for me.” She gripped him still more tightly.
“Don’t you feel the difference? Don’t you?”

“Of course I do.” But actually he couldn’t tell. The old Jiaorui had been

too good at feigning love.

Never before had she been in love like this. Even she didn’t know why
she loved Zhenbao so much. She’d watch him closely, her gaze both tender
and mocking, mocking him and mocking herself.

He was a man with a future, of course, a top-notch textile engineer. His
working style was special: nose to the grindstone, too busy to lift his head.
The  foreign  boss  was  constantly  calling  for  him:  “Tong!  Tong!  Where’s
Tong?”  Zhenbao  pushed  a  lock  of  hair  from  his  forehead,  eyes  gleaming
behind his glasses, the frames flashing. He liked summer, but even when it
wasn’t summer he’d be so busy that he’d work up a sweat. The elbows and
knees of his Western-style suit were full of creases like laugh lines. Chinese
colleagues would complain about the shabby way he looked.

He  told  Jiaorui  how  competent  he  was  and  how  efficient.  She  praised
him,  rubbing  his  hair.  “Oh  yes.  My  little  one  is  really  talented.  But  you
know that. If you didn’t, where would we be? It’s in other ways that you’re
not so clever. I love you—did you know that? I love you.”

He showed off in front of her, and she showed off in front of him. The
only  thing  she  was  really  good  at  was  leading  men  on.  Like  the  tumbler
who excelled  at  turning  somersaults  and turned  somersaults  for  the  Virgin
Mary,  Jiaorui  was  sincerely  pious:  she  offered  up  her  art  to  her  beloved.
She’d  provoke  a  man,  and  when  he  responded  accordingly,  she’d  glance
over at Zhenbao with a humble smile, as if to say, “This is what Iknow—
and if I didn’t, where would we be?” That Timmy Sun of hers was still in a
sulk,  and  yet  she  found  ways  to  tease  him.  Zhenbao  understood  what  she

was doing; it was tiresome, he thought, but he put up with it because it was
just  her  childishness.  Being  with  Jiaorui  was  like  living  with  a  swarm  of
teenagers—enough to make you old in no time.

Sometimes they discussed her husband’s return. Zhenbao would wear a
dark,  defeated  smile.  His  eyes  and  his  eyebrows  drooped;  his  whole  face
hung down in a mess like a mop. The entire relationship was illicit, but he
kept using this sinfulness as a spur, pushing himself to love her even more
fiercely. Jiaorui didn’t understand the full nature of his feeling, but it made
her  happy  to  see  him  suffer.  Back  when  she  was  a  student  in  England—
jumping out of bed, putting on lipstick without even bothering to wash her
face, and running out to see her boyfriends—men had of course threatened
to kill themselves for her sake. “I spent the whole night pacing under your
window,” they’d say. “I couldn’t sleep.” That meant nothing. But making a
man suffer for real—that was something else again.

One  day  she  said,  “I’ve  been  thinking  about  how  to  tell  him  when  he
comes back,” just as if it had already been decided that she would inform
Shihong  about  everything,  divorce  him,  and  marry  Zhenbao.  Zhenbao
wasn’t brave enough to say anything then. But his dark, defeated smile was
not  having  the  desired  effect,  so  later  on  he  said,  “Let’s  not  rush  into  this
blindly. Let me talk to a lawyer friend of mine first—get things clear. You
know, if this isn’t handled properly, there could be quite a price to pay.” As
a  businessman,  he  felt  that  merely  by  uttering  the  word  “lawyer”  he’d
gotten  seriously  involved  in  something—much  too  seriously.  But  Jiaorui
didn’t  notice  his  qualms.  She  was  full  of  confidence,  sure  that  once  the
problem on her side was solved, it would all be clear sailing.

Jiaorui often called him at his office. She had no restraint, and it upset
him. One day she phoned to say, “Why don’t we go out later and have some
fun?”

Zhenbao wanted to know why she was so happy.
“You  like  me  to  wear  those  prim  and  proper  Chinese  fashions,  don’t
you?  I  had  a  new  outfit  made,  and  it  came  today.  I  want  to  wear  it
someplace.”

“How about a movie?”
He and some colleagues had chipped in together to buy a small car, and
Jiaorui liked to go out for a ride. She had a plan that Zhenbao was going to
teach her to drive. “After I’ve learned I’ll buy a car too,” she announced. So

Shihong  would  buy  it  for  her?  Her  words  stuck  in  Zhenbao’s  craw;  he
couldn’t quite digest it.

Jiaorui  didn’t  seem  all  that  excited  about  seeing  a  movie.  “Okay,”  she

said, “if we can take the car.”

“So what are your feet for?” he laughed.
“Chasing you!” And she laughed too. After that, things got busy at the

office. Zhenbao had to get off the phone.

But that day another colleague happened to need the car, and Zhenbao
was  always  self-sacrificing,  especially  when  it  came  to  pleasures.  He  was
dropped  off  at  the  street  corner—from  the  apartment  window  Jiaorui  saw
him  stop  to  buy  the  evening  paper,  though  she  couldn’t  tell  if  he  was
looking at ads for the movies. She rushed out to meet him at the street door.
“If we don’t have the car, we can’t make it to the 5:15 movie. Let’s forget
about it.”

Zhenbao  looked  at  her  and  smiled.  “So  do  you  want  to  go  someplace

else? You look great.”

Jiaorui  hooked  her  arm  in  his.  “Won’t  it  be  fun  just  to  walk  along  the

avenue?”

But  Zhenbao  kept  fretting,  wanting  to  know  how  she  felt  about  this
place, then that one. They passed a Western-style restaurant with music. She
turned it down. “The truth is, I’m pretty broke these days!” he said.

“Oh,  dear,”  she  laughed.  “If  I’d  known  that,  I’d  never  have  gotten

mixed up with you!”

Just  then,  Zhenbao  recognized  an  old  foreign  lady  that  he  knew—
somebody through whom his family had sent money and packages when he
was studying abroad. Mrs. Ashe was British but she’d married a Eurasian,
which made her self-conscious and as British as British can be. She was tall
and  stooped  and  wore  an  elaborate  dress,  a  foreign-style  print  that  sagged
around  her  frame  and  made  her  look  like  an  old  beggar.  Her  hat  was  a
robin’s egg blue, mottled with black, and she’d stuck a pearl-headed hatpin
and a swallow feather in it. Under the hat was a circle of gray hair, pressed
flat  like  a  wig,  and  her  eyes  looked  as  if  they  were  made  of  pale  blue
porcelain.  Her  English  came  out  very  softly,  her  voice  breathy  and
conspiratorial.  Zhenbao  shook  hands  with  her.  “Are  you  still  living  in  the
same place?” he asked.

“At first we were going to go home this summer, but my husband just
can’t  get  away!”  Going  to  England  was  “going  home”  even  though  her

husband’s family had lived in China for three generations, and she herself
had no living relatives in England.

Zhenbao introduced Jiaorui. “This is Mrs. Shihong Wang. Wang was in
Edinburgh also, and Mrs. Wang spent many years in London. I’m living at
their place now.”

Mrs. Ashe was accompanied by her daughter. Zhenbao, of course, had
considerable experience with mixed-blood girls. Miss Ashe pursed her red
lips but didn’t say much. She had dark brown eyes peering out of a pointed,
white-peach face. A woman who doesn’t yet have her own household, her
own  portion  of  worry  and  duty  and  joy,  will  often  have  that  watchful,
waiting  look.  And  yet  Miss  Ashe,  young  as  she  was,  didn’t  yearn  for
domesticity; she wasn’t a girl with a heart “launched like an arrow toward
home.” Career girls in the city often have a harried look, and Miss Ashe’s
eyes  were  puffy,  her  face  drawn  and  pale.  In  China,  as  elsewhere,  the
constraints  imposed  by  the  traditional  moral  code  were  originally
constructed  for  the  benefit  of  women:  they  made  beautiful  women  even
harder  to  obtain,  so  their  value  rose,  and  ugly  women  were  spared  the
prospect  of  never-ending  humiliation.  Women  nowadays  don’t  have  this
kind of protective buffer, especially not mixed-blood girls, whose status is
so  entirely  undefined.  There  was  a  razor  edge  to  Miss  Ashe’s  exhausted
peering gaze.

Jiaorui  could  see  at  a  glance  that  in  going  home  mother  and  daughter
would be headed straight into the English lower middle class. But they were
Zhenbao’s friends, and she was eager to make a good impression; also, for
some  reason,  the  presence  of  other  females  made  her  feel  like  a  “proper
woman”  again.  She  was  a  full-status  wife.  She  ought  to  exude  an  air  of
dignified affluence. Zhenbao rarely saw her smiling so serenely, almost like
a  movie  star;  suddenly  she  became  a  sapphire  from  whose  depths  a
flickering  lamp  draws  waves  of  light  and  shadow.  Jiaorui  was  wearing  a
cheongsam  of  dark  purple-blue  georgette,  and  a  little  heart-shaped  gold
pendant gleamed faintly at her breast, cold and splendid—as if she had no
other heart. Zhenbao looked at her, and he was both pleased and suspicious;
if there’d been a man around how different things would have been!

Mrs.  Ashe  asked  about  Mrs.  Tong,  and  Zhenbao  said,  “My  mother’s
health is fine. She still looks after the whole family.” He turned to Jiaorui.
“My mother often does the cooking, and she’s a very good cook. I always
say we’re very lucky to have a mother like that!” Whenever he praised his

widowed mother, he was reminded of the many years of grievous hardship
his family had endured, and he couldn’t help gnashing his teeth. He smiled,
but as the full weight of his ambitions bore down on him, his heart was like
a rock.

Mrs.  Ashe  asked  about  his  younger  brother  and  sisters.  “Dubao  is  a
good kid, he’s in technical school now, and later on our factory might send
him  to  England  to  study.”  Even  the  two  sisters  were  praised—the  whole
family  was  ideal—until  Mrs.  Ashe  had  to  exclaim,  “You  really  are
something! I’ve always said that your mother must be very proud of you!”
Zhenbao  was  suitably  modest.  He  asked  how  things  were  going  for
everyone in the Ashe family.

Seeing the newspaper rolled up in his hand, Mrs. Ashe inquired if there
was any news this evening. Zhenbao handed her the paper, but her eyesight
was  so  poor  that  even  when  she  held  it  at  arm’s  length  she  still  couldn’t
make anything out. She asked her daughter to read it for her.

“I was planning to take Mrs. Wang to see a movie, but there aren’t any
good  ones,”  Zhenbao  said.  In  front  of  other  people  his  attitude  toward
Jiaorui  was  a  little  stiff—he  wanted  to  show  that  he  was  only  a  family
friend—but Miss Ashe’s quiet, watchful eyes made him feel he was giving
everything away. Zhenbao leaned close to Jiaorui. Very familiarly, he said,
“I’ll make it up to you another time, okay?” He looked at her with shining
eyes  and  laughed.  Immediately  after,  he  was  sorry—as  if  he’d  gotten  too
excited  while  talking  and  sprayed  spit  in  someone’s  face.  He  had  always
taken  this  Miss  Ashe  for  a  keen  observer.  She  was  young  and  she  had
nothing,  not  even  a  personality;  she  was  just  waiting  for  the  approach  of
everything  in  the  world.  Already  its  huge  shadow  had  fallen  across  her
otherwise expressionless features.

Jiaorui  was  young,  and  she  had  all  sorts  of  things,  but  somehow  they
didn’t count. She seemed scatterbrained, like a child who goes out and picks
dozens of violets, one by one, gathers them into a bunch and tosses them all
away. Zhenbao had only his future to bank on, a future he’d prepared for all
on his  own. How  could  he bear  to  see it thrown to  the  wind? Rich  young
men and women are free to be careless—security is an inheritance for them
—but for him it was not so easy! The four of them walked slowly down the
same street, Mrs. Ashe in the safety and comfort of a room full of flowered
wallpaper,  while  the  three  young  people  faced  menace  on  every  side—it
boomed beneath them like a drum.

It was not yet dark, but the neon lights were shining; in the daylight they
looked even more artificial, like costume jewelry. They passed a shop with
lamps  for  sale,  innumerable  lamps  under  the  neon  glow,  the  whole  place
blazing  with  light.  Behind  the  tin  grill  of  a  snack  shop,  a  waitress  leaned
forward  to  pick  up  a  piece  of  pastry;  her  rouge-red  cheeks  looked  good
enough to eat. Did old people also see it like that? Walking next to the old
woman, Zhenbao couldn’t help feeling the brevity of youth. A row of shiny
round-head  spikes,  their  heads  indented  on  four  sides,  marked  off  a
pedestrian crosswalk; beside them the asphalt road looked as dark and soft
as  rubber.  Zhenbao  swayed  along,  letting  his  body  go.  He  couldn’t  tell
whether it was his own gait that was rubbery or the road underfoot.

Mrs. Ashe praised the fabric of Jiaorui’s dress. Then she said, “I saw a
piece like that, last time I was at the Huilou fine goods shop. Dolly turned it
down because she thought it was too dark. I still wanted to buy it, but then I
thought,  well,  I  don’t  often  have  an  occasion  for  wearing  such  clothes…”
She  didn’t  seem  to  feel  that  what  she  said  was  sad,  but  the  others  all  fell
silent,  unable  to  respond.  “So  Mr.  Ashe  must  be  very  busy?”  Zhenbao
finally asked.

“Oh,  yes.  Otherwise,  we’d  go  home  for  a  visit  this  summer.  But  he

really can’t get away!”

“Some Sunday when I have the car, I’ll come and fetch you all and take

you to Jiangwan to have some Chinese snacks made by my mother.”

“That  would  be  wonderful!  My  husband  simply  dotes  on  Chinese

things!”

She sounded just like a rich foreign visitor; no one would have guessed

that her husband was half Chinese.

After  saying  good-bye  to  Mrs.  Ashe  and  her  daughter,  Zhenbao
remarked to Jiaorui, as if in explanation, “That Mrs. Ashe is a really good
person.”

Jiaorui looked at him and smiled. “I think you are a really good person.”
“Just how am I so very good?” Suddenly his face was right in hers.
“I’ll tell you—don’t get angry. When a woman sees a man who’s good
like you, she wants to fix him up with someone else. She doesn’t even think
of keeping him for herself.”

“So you don’t like good men?”
“When a woman likes a good man it’s because she thinks she can trap

him.”

“Oh-ho! So you’re planning to trap me, is that it?”
Jiaorui paused. She gave him a sideways glance and started to smile but

she stopped. “This time, it’s the bad girl who’s been trapped!”

That sideways glance, those soft words—they were intolerable to him at
the  moment.  Later  that  evening,  stretched  out  in  Jiaorui’s  bed,  he  thought
about  the  meeting  with  Mrs.  Ashe  on  the  street,  about  his  studies  in
Edinburgh, when his family had sent him money and packages, and about
how it was now time to repay his mother. He wanted to get ahead, move up
in the world, and the first step was to rise in his profession. After he’d made
it  to  a  suitably  high  position,  he’d  contribute  something  to  society—for
instance,  he  could  set  up  an  industrial-science  school  for  poor  boys,  or  a
model textile factory in his hometown, Jiangwan. Vague as it all was, even
now  he  had  a  fuzzy  intimation  of  the  warm  welcome  awaiting  him—not
just from his own mother but from a whole world of mothers, tearful, and
with eyes only for him.

Jiaorui  was  fast  asleep,  curled  up  close  to  him,  the  sound  of  her
breathing loud in his ear. Suddenly she seemed a thing apart, and somehow
alien. He sat up on the edge of the bed and groped around in the dark until
he found a cigarette and lit it. He didn’t think Jiaorui had noticed, but in fact
she  was  awake.  After  a  long  while  she  reached  out,  feeling  for  his  hand.
“Don’t  worry,”  she  said  softly,  “I’ll  be  good.”  She  laid  his  hand  on  her
shoulder.

Her  words  made  him  weep,  but  the  tears  too  were  a  thing  apart,  and

somehow alien.

Zhenbao  didn’t  answer,  letting  his  hands  roam  over  familiar  places.
Soon the sun would rise. The city was full of the muffled noise of crowing
cocks.

The next day, they spoke again of her husband’s return. “Anyway, he’ll

be back sometime in the next few days,” Jiaorui said with great certainty.

Zhenbao  asked  her  how  she  knew,  and  only  then  did  she  tell  him  that
she’d sent Shihong a letter by airmail telling him everything and asking for
her  freedom.  Zhenbao  gasped,  the  sound  coming  from  deep  within.  He
stood up and ran out onto the street. When he looked back at the towering
apartment building, with its tall, flowing red-and-gray lines, it looked like a
roaring  train—incredibly  huge  and  barreling  straight  down  upon  him,
blocking out sun and moon. The situation was beyond repair. He’d thought
that he had it all under control and that he could stop whenever he wanted,

but now things had rushed forward on their own, there was no use in even
arguing. The worst thing was that he didn’t even want to argue—not when
he was with her. It was so clear, then, that they loved each other and should
go  on  loving  each  other.  It  was  only  when  she  wasn’t  there  that  he  could
think up all sorts of reasons against it. Right now, for instance, it struck him
as all too likely that he’d been played for a fool in a deeper game with her
true  love,  Timmy  Sun.  She’d  pulled  the  wool  over  Zhenbao’s  eyes  by
saying  that  it  was  because  of  him  that  she  wanted  a  divorce,  and  now  if
there was a scandal, his future would be ruined.

He  walked  a  long  way  without  caring  where.  At  a  little  restaurant, he
had a few drinks and a bite to eat. When he came out, his stomach hurt. He
got into a rickshaw, thinking he would visit Dubao in his dormitory, but in
the  rickshaw  his  stomach  felt  worse  still.  He  lost  control  of  himself—the
tiniest  tremor  of  pain  was  more  than  he  could  bear—and  he  panicked.
Imagining  he  had  cholera,  he  told  the  rickshaw  driver  to  take  him  to  the
nearest  hospital.  Once  he’d  been  admitted,  he  informed  his  mother;  she
rushed to the hospital right away. The next day she came bearing lotus-root
powder  and  grape  juice  that  she’d  bought  for  him.  Jiaorui  showed  up  as
well. His mother suspected that something was going on between them, and
she made sure to scold him in front of Jiaorui.

“Getting sick to your stomach, that’s nothing in itself, but I tossed and
turned  all  night,  worrying  about  you—a  grown  man  and  you  still  don’t
know  how  to  take  care  of  yourself!  How  on  earth  am  I  supposed  to  look
after  you  all  the  time?  And  if  I  just  let  you  do  as  you  please,  I’ll  be
constantly worrying. But if you had a wife, I wouldn’t have to. Mrs. Wang,
please tell him—he’ll listen to what his friends say, even if he won’t listen
to  me.  Oh,  dear!  Here  I’ve  been  waiting  so  long  till  you’d  finished  your
schooling  and  begun  your  career.  Now  that  you’re  finally  getting
somewhere,  don’t  think  you  can  just  let  go,  let  everything  fall  apart!  You
have  to  earn  the  respect  you  receive.  Mrs.  Wang,  please,  you  tell  him  for
me.”

Jiaorui  pretended  not  to  understand  Chinese;  she  just  stood  there
smiling.  Zhenbao’s thoughts were  in  fact very similar  to  his  mother’s, but
when  he  heard  her,  he  felt  that  the  way  she  put  things  was  somehow
humiliating. He was embarrassed, and found an excuse to send her away.

That left him with Jiaorui. She walked over to the bed and leaned over
the white metal railing, her whole body a painful question mark. Zhenbao

rolled  away  impatiently;  he  couldn’t  explain  and  he  couldn’t  escape  his
mother’s  logic.  Jiaorui  closed  the  curtain,  and  the  sunlight  on  his  pillow
turned to cool shadow. She didn’t leave, but stayed to nurse him, bringing
tea, water, the bedpan. The enamel basin was ice-cold against his skin; her
hands were just as cold. When he happened to glance her way, she seized
the chance to speak: “Don’t be afraid…” He hated her saying that he was
afraid; his expression changed, and she stopped. More time passed. “I have
really  changed…”  she  said.  Again  he  shifted  uncomfortably,  to  keep  her
from  speaking.  “I  won’t  bring  you  any  trouble,  I  promise…”  And  then,
“You can’t leave me, Zhenbao…” Her broken sentences hung in midair like
the  pendulums  of  several  clocks,  each  ticking  along  at  a  different  speed,
each following its own logic and reaching its own conclusions, each rising
up at a different moment, each hammering its bell at a different time… to
Zhenbao  it  seemed  that  the  room  was  filled  with  Jiaorui’s  voice,  even
though she had long since fallen silent.

Evening  came,  and  with  the  lamps  still  unlit  she  threw  herself  on  him
and  wept.  Even  in  her  humiliation  she  had  strength.  Through  the  blanket
and the sheet he could feel the firmness of her arms. But he didn’t want her
strength; he already had his own.

She threw herself across his waist and legs and she wailed. Her hair, a
mess  of  soft,  loose  curls,  exuded  heat  like  a  brazier.  She  was  like  a  child
who’s been wronged, who cries so much that she can’t stop, doesn’t know
how to, hoarsely crying on and on, having forgotten why she started to cry
in the first place. For Zhenbao it was the same. “No, no, no… Don’t go on
like this, it won’t do…” The words required an enormous struggle; he was
fighting  hard  to  subdue  the  surging  waves  of  longing.  He  spent  all  his
strength in saying “No, no, no” even though he’d forgotten what it was he
meant to refuse.

But  finally  he  found  something  suitable  to  say.  With  great  effort,  he
raised his knees, making her get up. “Jiaorui,” he said, “if you love me, then
you have to consider my situation. I can’t cause my mother pain. Her way
of thinking is different from ours, but we have to think about her, since she
has only me to depend on. The world would never forgive me. And Shihong
is,  after  all,  my  friend.  Our  love  can  only  be  love  between  friends.  What
happened before is my mistake, and I’m very sorry. But now you’ve written
and  told  him  without  letting  me  know—that’s  your  mistake.  Jiaorui,  what

do you say? When he comes, tell him you were only fooling, that you just
wanted him to come back early. He’ll believe you—if he wants to.”

Jiaorui lifted a red, swollen face and stared. In a flash, she stood straight
up,  apparently  astonished  to  find  herself  in  such  a  state.  She  took  a  small
mirror out of her purse, glanced into it while tilting her head this way and
that, tossed her hair back loosely, wiped her eyes with a handkerchief, blew
her nose, and, without looking at him once, walked out.

Zhenbao  didn’t  sleep  well  that  night,  and  with  dawn  came  new
awareness;  it  seemed  as  if  someone  had  come  during  the  night  and  fallen
across him, weeping. At first he thought it was a dream, but then he realized
that  it  was  Jiaorui:  probably  she’d  been  there  for  a  long  time  now  crying.
The warmth of the woman’s body lay over him like an eiderdown quilt on
satin sheets. He luxuriated in the moment, breaking out in a gentle sweat.

When  he  was  fully  awake,  Jiaorui  left  without  a  word.  He  didn’t  say
anything either. Later he heard that she and Wang Shihong had decided to
divorce, but it all seemed very remote. His mother cried in front of him a
few  times,  urging  him  to  marry,  and  he  put  it  off  for  a  while,  then  finally
agreed. His mother arranged the introductions. “She’s the one then,” he said
to himself, when he met Miss Meng Yanli.

They met first in someone’s living room. Yanli was standing by a glass
door wearing a silk shift with ruddy orange stripes on a gray background.
Zhenbao’s  immediate  impression,  however,  was  of  a  vague,  enveloping
whiteness.  Yanli  was  tall  and  slender,  like  a  single  straight  line;  the  only
hint of a twist or turn came at the tips of her girlish breasts and the jutting
bones  of  her  hips.  When  a  breeze  stirred,  and  her  dress  swept  out  behind
her, it made her look thin and frail. Her face was soft and very pretty, and
yet  the  main  effect  was  of  whiteness.  Yanli’s  father  had  died,  and  her
family’s  fortunes  had  gone  into  decline,  but  at  one  time  they  had  been  a
wealthy  merchant  family,  so  the  two  of  them  had  similar  family
backgrounds. The young lady was twenty-two years old and would soon be
graduating from college. Her college wasn’t a very good one, just the best
she  could  get  into,  but  Yanli  was  a  good  student  in  a  mediocre  place;  she
studied hard and didn’t associate much with her classmates. Her whiteness,
like  a  portable  hospital  screen,  separated  her  from  the  bad  things  in  her
environment.  It  also  separated  her  from  the  things  in  her  books.  For  ten
years  now  Yanli  had  gone  to  school,  diligently  looking  up  new  words,
memorizing  charts,  copying  from  the  blackboard,  but  between  her  and

everything  else  there  always  seemed  to  be  a  white  membrane.  In  middle
school,  she’d  received  letters  from  some  boys—the  elder  brothers  of  her
classmates, for the most part. When her family found out about it, they told
her not to get involved with people like that. Yanli had never written back.

Zhenbao  planned  to  marry  her  in  two  months,  after  her  graduation.
During  this  time,  he  took  her  out  to  the  movies  a  few  times.  Yanli  rarely
spoke or raised her head and always walked a little behind him. She knew
very  well  that  according  to  modern  etiquette  she  should  walk  in  front,  let
him  help  her  put  on  her  coat  and  wait  on  her,  but  she  was  uncomfortable
exercising  her  new  rights.  She  hesitated,  and  this  made  her  seem  even
slower  and  more  awkward.  Zhenbao  himself  wasn’t  a  natural-born
gentleman,  but  he  had  worked  hard  to  learn  the  part:  he  took  the  matter
seriously  and  thought  Yanli  quite  remiss  in  this  regard.  Fortunately,  a  shy
shrinking manner in a young girl is not too unpleasant.

The  engagement  was  short,  and  secretly  Yanli  was  very  disappointed;
she’d always heard that these were the best days of one’s life. Even so, she
was very happy when the wedding day arrived. That morning, combing her
hair while still half asleep, she lifted her arms up, looked in the mirror, and
felt a strange sense of invigoration—as if she’d been crammed into a glass
test tube and was now pushing her head up to pop the lid off, ready to leap
from the present into future. The present was good, but the future would be
better. Yanli stretched her arms out of the window of the future, and a vast
wind blew through her hair.

The  wedding  was  at  Yi  Pin  Xiang  Restaurant,  with  the  banquet  at
Dongxing  Restaurant.  Zhenbao  liked  to  make  a  good  impression,  but  he
was also careful with money—good enough was good enough for him. He
rented a new house not far from his office and had his mother come from
Jiangwan to live with them. He spent most of his earnings on work-related
socializing, so the household budget was very tight. His mother and Yanli
got along fairly well, but Zhenbao had many complaints about Yanli and no
one to tell them to. Yanli didn’t like exercise; even “the best sort of indoor
exercise”  had  no  appeal  for  her.  Zhenbao  made  a  real  effort  to  be  a  good
husband and help her like it, but he didn’t feel much physical attraction. At
first she’d seemed cute, one undeveloped breast nestling in his hand like a
sleeping bird with its own lightly beating heart, its sharp beak pecking at his
palm, firm yet without strength—but then his hand had also lost its strength.
Later  on  even  this  little  bit  of  girlish  beauty  was  gone.  Gradually  Yanli

settled into her new environment, and as she did, she turned into a very dull
wife.

Zhenbao started going to prostitutes. Once every three weeks—his life
was,  in  every  respect,  well  regulated.  He  and  some  friends  would  take
rooms  in  a  hotel  and  call  in  the  women;  they’d  tell  their  families  they’d
gone  to  Suzhou  and  Hangzhou  on  business.  He  wasn’t  particular  about
faces,  but  he  liked  girls  who  were  dark  and  a  little  bit  plump.  He  wanted
them  fleshy  and  ashamed,  which  was  his  way  of  taking  revenge  on  Rose
and Wang Jiaorui, though he wouldn’t let himself view it that way. If such a
thing did enter his mind, he immediately reproached himself for desecrating
treasured  memories.  For  these  two  lovers,  he  reserved  a  sensitive  spot,  a
sacred  corner  of  his  heart.  Wang  Jiaorui  and  Rose  gradually  became  so
mixed  up  in  his  mind  that  they  became  one:  a  naive,  passionate  girl  who
had  doted  on  him,  a  girl  with  no  brains,  or  anything  to  cause  him  any
trouble, though he—with his self-denying logic and steely, superhuman will
—had left her.

Yanli had no idea about the prostitutes. She loved him simply because
he, among so many others, happened to be her man. She was always saying
things  like  “Wait  and  ask  Zhenbao  about  it”  or  “Better  take  an  umbrella,
Zhenbao said it’s going to rain.” Zhenbao was her God, and assuming that
role was no problem for him. When Yanli made a mistake, he’d reprimand
her in front of other people, and if something escaped his attention, it never
failed  to  escape  his  mother’s.  Each  time  she  was  scolded  in  front  of  the
maidservant,  Yanli  could  feel  her  authority  crumbling  away  beneath  her.
When her orders weren’t carried out, she was again to blame. She hated the
disdain in the servants’ eyes, and in dealing with them she protected herself
by knitting her brows and pouting before she even spoke, her whole face a
study in childish chagrin. When she threw a tantrum, she always seemed to
be  talking  back,  like  a  maid  or  a  concubine  who  has  grown  used  to
occupying the bottom rung.

The  only  time  Yanli  managed  to  be  mistress  of  the  house—for  a  few
days  at  least—was  when  the  servants  were  new,  so  she  liked  getting  new
servants  as  often  as  she  could.  Zhenbao’s  mother  told  everyone  that  her
daughter-in-law was useless: “Poor Zhenbao, working so hard at his job to
support the family, but when he comes home he’s pestered with all sort of
domestic details. He can’t get a moment’s peace.” Her words got around to
Yanli, and the anger built up in her heart. She grew angrier and angrier, and

then she had a child. The delivery was difficult. Yanli felt she’d earned the
right to throw a fit. But the child was a girl, and Yanli’s mother-in-law had
no intention  of humoring  her. Soon  they  were  irritated with  each other  all
the  time.  Fortunately, Zhenbao played  peacemaker  and the  embarrassment
of  a  direct  confrontation  was  avoided,  but  his  mother  sullenly  insisted  on
moving  back  to  Jiangwan.  Zhenbao  was  very  disappointed  in  his  wife:
having married her for her tractability, he felt cheated. He was also unhappy
with  his  mother—moving  out  like  that  and  letting  people  say  he  wasn’t  a
good  son.  He  was  still  busy-busy,  but  gradually  he  succumbed  to  fatigue.
Even the smiling wrinkles of his suit looked tired.

When Dubao graduated, Zhenbao, in his role as talent scout, found his
brother  a  job  at  the  factory.  But  Dubao  didn’t  live  up  to  his  potential.
Overshadowed by his older brother, he became a loafer, without ambition.
He was still single, and quite content to live in a dormitory.

One morning Dubao showed up at Zhenbao’s place with a question. The
assistant  manager  of  the  factory  would  soon  be  returning  to  his  home
country, and everyone had contributed toward a gift which it was Dubao’s
job to purchase. Zhenbao advised him to go to a department store and see
what sort of silver items they had. The two brothers left the house together
and caught the same bus. Zhenbao sat down next to a woman who, without
a  glance,  picked  up  the  child  beside  her  and  put  him  on  her  lap.  Zhenbao
didn’t  pay  any  attention,  but  Dubao,  sitting  across  the  aisle,  gasped  in
surprise. Lifting himself in his seat, he signaled to Zhenbao with his head.
Only  then  did  Zhenbao  recognize  Jiaorui.  She  was  plumper  than  before,
though  certainly  not  paunchy,  as  she’d  once  feared  would  happen  to  her.
She  looked  tired,  but  she  was  carefully  made  up,  and  the  pendants  of  her
earrings  were  gold-colored  Burmese  Buddha  heads.  Jiaorui  was  middle-
aged now, and her beauty had turned to plain good looks.

“Mrs. Zhu,” said Dubao, smiling, “it’s been a long time!”
Zhenbao remembered hearing that she had remarried—that she was now
Mrs.  Zhu.  Jiaorui  smiled  back.  “Yes,  it  really  has  been  a  long  time!”  she
said.

Zhenbao nodded. “How have you been?” he asked.
“Just fine, thank you.”
“Have you been in Shanghai all this time?” Dubao asked.
Jiaorui nodded.
“It seems a bit early in the morning for running errands,” he continued.

“It certainly is!” Jiaorui said. She put her hand on the child’s shoulder.
“I’m taking him to the dentist. He got a toothache yesterday, kept me up all
night with his fussing, and now I’ve got to take him in early.”

“Which is your stop?” asked Dubao.
“The dentist’s office is on the Bund. Are you two going to the office?”
“He is,” said Dubao, “but I’ve got to do some shopping.”
“Is  everything  still  the  same  at  the  factory?”  asked  Jiaorui.  “No  big

changes?”

“Hilton is going back. Now Zhenbao will be the assistant manager.”
“Oh, my! That’s wonderful!”
Dubao  never  talked  this  much  when  his  older  brother  was  present;
Zhenbao  could  tell  that  Dubao  felt  it  incumbent  on  him,  under  the
circumstances, to do the talking. Which meant he must know all about their
affair.

Dubao got off at the next stop. Zhenbao was silent for a while. He didn’t

look at Jiaorui. “Well, and how are you?” he asked the empty air.

Jiaorui  was  silent,  but  after  a  pause  she  said,  “Just  fine.”  The  same
question and same answer as before, but now they had an entirely different
meaning.

“This Mr. Zhu—do you love him?”
Jiaorui  nodded.  When  she  answered,  her  words  were  interrupted  by
pauses. “Starting with you… I learned… how to love… to really love. Love
is good. Even though I have suffered, I still want to love, and so…”

Zhenbao  rolled  up  the  square  collar  of  her  son’s  sailor  outfit.  “You’re

very happy,” he said in a low voice.

Jiaorui  laughed.  “I  had  to  forge  ahead  somehow.  When  I  ran  into

something, well, that was it.”

“What you run into is always a man,” Zhenbao said with a cold smile.
Jiaorui wasn’t angry. She tilted her head to one side and thought about
it. “True,” she said. “When I was young and pretty, I always ran into men.
That probably would have happened no matter what I did, once my social
life  started.  But  now,  there  are  other  things  besides  men,  always  other
things…”

Zhenbao  stared  at  her,  unaware  that  his  heart,  at  that  moment,  was

aching with jealousy.

“And you?” asked Jiaorui. “How are you?”

Zhenbao  wanted  to  sum  up  his  perfectly  happy  life  in  a  few  simple
words, but as he was trying to find them, he looked up and saw his face in
the small mirror on the bus driver’s right. He knew his face was steady and
calm, and yet the vibration of the bus made his face vibrate too, a strange,
calm, regular vibration, almost as if his face was being gently massaged. All
at once, Zhenbao’s face really did begin to quiver; in the mirror he saw tears
streaming down… he didn’t know why. Shouldn’t she have been the one to
weep? It was all wrong, and yet he couldn’t stop. She should be weeping,
he should be comforting her. But Jiaorui didn’t comfort him. She sat silently
for a long time. Then she asked, “Is this your stop?”

He got off the bus and went to work as usual. It was Saturday, so they
had  the  afternoon  off.  He  went  home  at  half  past  twelve.  He  had  a  small
Western-style  house  with  a  big,  imposing  wall  out  front,  but  then  all  the
houses  in  the  area,  row  after  row  of  them,  looked  exactly  the  same:  gray
cement walls, as smooth, shiny, and rectangular as coffins, with flowering
oleanders  sticking  up  over  the  top.  The  courtyard  inside  was  small,  but  it
counted as a garden. Everything a home should have, his had. Small white
clouds  floated  in  the  blue  sky  above,  and  on  the  street  a  flute  vendor  was
playing  the  flute—a  sharp,  soft,  sinuous,  Oriental  tune  that  twisted  and
turned in the ear like embroidery, like a picture of a dream in a novel, a trail
of white mist coming out from under the bed curtain and unfurling all sorts
of images, slowly uncoiling like a lazy snake, till finally the drowsiness is
just too great, and even the dream-falls asleep.

The  house  was  perfectly  quiet  when  Zhenbao  walked  in.  His  seven-
year-old daughter, Huiying, was still at school; the maidservant had gone to
fetch her. Zhenbao didn’t want to wait; he told Yanli to go ahead and put the
food on the table. He wolfed it down, as if to fill the emptiness in his heart
with food.

After eating, he phoned Dubao to ask him how the shopping had gone.
Dubao  explained  that he’d looked  at  several pieces of silver  but  none had
been suitable. “I have a pair of silver vases here,” said Zhenbao. “Someone
gave them to us as wedding gifts. Take them to a shop and have them re-
engraved.  That  should  take  care  of  it.  You  can  return  the  money  you’ve
collected.  It’ll  be  my  contribution.”  Dubao  agreed,  and  Zhenbao  said,
“Perhaps  you  should  come  and  get  them  now.”  He  was  anxious  to  see
Dubao  and  to  find  out  his  reaction  to  seeing  Jiaorui  that  morning.  The

whole  scene  had  been  so  nonsensical—and  his  own  response  so  absurd—
that Zhenbao almost wondered if it had really happened.

Dubao  came,  and  Zhenbao  casually  brought  the  conversation  round  to
Jiaorui. Dubao tapped his cigarette like a man of experience: “She’s gotten
old,  really  old.”  Which  apparently  meant,  for  a  woman,  that  she  was
finished.

Zhenbao reviewed the scene that morning: yes, she had grown old. But
even this he envied. He looked at his wife. Eight years of marriage and still
no trace of experience. She was hollow and spotless. She always would be.

He  told  Yanli  to  wrap  up  the  two  silver  vases  on  the  mantelpiece  and
give  them  to  Dubao.  She  scrambled  around  to  find  a  chair,  removed  the
cushion,  stood  on  the  chair,  got  some  newspaper  from  the  top  of  the
cupboard, went back to the drawer for some string, found a string that was
too  short,  wrapped  up  the  vases  and  made  a  complete  mess  of  it,  even
ripping  the  paper  into  pieces.  Zhenbao  watched  the  whole  thing  with
growing  irritation.  All  at  once  he  strode  over  and  grabbed  the  vases  from
her. He groaned loudly. “When a person’s stupid, everything’s a trial!”

Yanli’s  face  flushed  with  resentment,  like  a  slave  girl’s.  But  then  she
smiled  and  laughed,  glancing  quickly  at  Dubao  to  see  if  he  was  laughing
too, afraid he might not have caught her husband’s joke. She stood to one
side with her arms folded while Zhenbao wrapped up the silver vases. Her
features were strangely clouded, as if a white membrane had been stretched
across her face.

Dubao was getting fidgety. At their house friends and relatives often got
fidgety.  He  wanted  to  leave.  Anxious  to  make  up  for  the  faux  pas,  Yanli
rallied. She pressed him warmly to stay—“If you aren’t busy.” She fawned
and smiled, her eyes narrowing, her nose wrinkling flirtatiously. She often
surprised  people  with  such  an  unexpected  intimacy.  If  Dubao  had  been  a
woman, she would have taken his hand in her own moist palm and held on
desperately—imposing herself in a way that was sure to prove distasteful.

Dubao  said  he  really  must  go.  At  the  door,  he  ran  into  the  old
maidservant  bringing  Huiying  back.  Dubao  took  some  gum  from  his
trousers  pocket  and  gave  it  to  the  girl.  “Say  ‘Thank  you,  Uncle,’  ”  Yanli
chimed in. Huiying dodged away.

“Ah! So you’re embarrassed!” Dubao laughed.
Huiying flipped up her Western-style skirt to hide her face, showing her

underwear. “Now you should be really embarrassed!” Yanli cried out.

Huiying grabbed the gum, flipped the skirt over her face again, and ran

away laughing.

Zhenbao  sat  watching  his  daughter,  with  her  thin,  yellow,  prancing
hands  and  feet.  Before,  this  child  had  not  existed.  He  had  summoned  her
out of thin air.

Zhenbao went upstairs to wash his face; downstairs, Yanli turned on the
radio to listen to the news. Zhenbao thought it was a good idea for Yanli to
listen  to  the  news—part  of  a  modern  woman’s  education.  Perhaps  she’d
even  pick  up  a  phrase  or  two  of  Mandarin.  He  didn’t  know  that  Yanli
listened to the radio just to hear a human voice.

Zhenbao  looked  out  of  the  window.  The  sky  was  blue  and  the  clouds
were white, the oleander was blooming in the courtyard, and the flute was
still  playing  in  the  street—as  sharp  and  wheedling  as  the  voice  of  a  low-
class woman. It wasn’t a very good flute. The notes were shrill and hurt his
ears.

Here  on  this  lovely  spring  afternoon,  Zhenbao  looked  around  at  the

world he had made. There was no way to destroy it.

The quiet house was filled with sunlight. Downstairs, a man’s confident

voice came over the radio, droning on and on.

From  the  moment  Zhenbao  got  married,  he’d  been  convinced  that
everyone around him, starting with his mother, should be patting him on the
back  and  offering  him  encouragement.  His  mother  knew  how  much  he’d
sacrificed, but he felt that even those who didn’t know all the details owed
him respect, owed him a little sympathy in compensation.

As a result, people often did make a point of praising him, though never
enough, while Zhenbao devoted himself to doing all sorts of good deeds—
things he’d take upon himself, without even being asked. He paid off some
debts for Dubao, found him a wife, set him up in a house with his family.
His  sister  was  a  particular  problem,  and  this  made  him  especially
considerate  toward  unmarried  or  widowed  friends.  He  got  them  jobs,
money—there was nothing he wouldn’t do. He spent a lot of time and effort
obtaining  a  position  for  his  sister  at  a  school  in  the  interior,  because  he’d
heard  that  the  male  teachers  there  were  all  recent  university  graduates,
every one of them unmarried. But his sister wasn’t cut out for hardship; she
threw a fit and came running back to Shanghai, not even finishing out her
half-year contract. His mother sympathized with her daughter, and criticized
Zhenbao for being hasty.

Yanli  watched  all  this  from  the  sidelines.  It  made  her  very  angry  on
Zhenbao’s  behalf,  and  she  complained  to  others  whenever  she  could.  But
Yanli  rarely  saw  anyone.  Lacking  a  lively,  sociable  lady  of  the  house,
Zhenbao felt  it was  better  to  take  people  out,  even if  it did  cost  more.  He
never  brought  people  home.  But  on  those  rare  occasions  when  a  friend
came  looking  for  Zhenbao  and  found  that  he  wasn’t  in,  Yanli  proved  an
attentive  hostess.  She’d  treat  the  guest  like  the  closest  of  friends,  freely
discussing Zhenbao.

“Zhenbao  always  gets  the  short  end  of  the  stick—he’s  so  good  to
people, so sincere, and then he’s the one who suffers! Ah—but that’s how it
is, isn’t it, Mr. Zhang? Sincerity doesn’t get you anywhere nowadays! Even
his  own  sister  and  brother  are  ungrateful,  not  to  mention  the  friends  who
come  around  only  when  they  want  something—and  they’re  all  like  that!
I’ve  seen  it  all,  and  Zhenbao  won’t  change  his  ways,  not  one  bit,  even
though he’s the one who suffers, each and every time. A good man has no
place in our world today! That’s how it is, isn’t it, Mr. Zhang?”

The friend would feel that soon he too would be numbered among the
ungrateful,  and  a  chill  would  creep  into  his  heart.  None  of  Zhenbao’s
friends liked Yanli, even though she was pretty, quiet, and refined, just the
wife  for  someone  else,  a  perfect  backdrop  for  men  busily  engaged  in
vigorous, freewheeling conversation.

Yanli  had  no  women  friends  of  her  own,  so  she  had  no  chance  to
compare her life with others’ and find out how low she’d fallen in her own
household.  Zhenbao  didn’t  encourage  her  to  interact  with  other  married
women  because  he  knew  that  she  wasn’t  up  to  it.  Placed  in  an  unfamiliar
situation,  she  would  just  reveal  all  her  weaknesses  and  encourage  gossip.
He forgave her for telling people he was unappreciated, because a woman’s
perspective is always limited. Anyway, she was protecting him; she hated to
see  him  exploited.  But  when  she  made  similar  comments  to  the  old
maidservant,  Zhenbao’s  temper  got  the  better  of  him  and  he  intervened.
Then  there  was  the  time  he  heard  Yanli  complaining  to  eight-year-old
Huiying. He didn’t say anything about it, but not long after he sent Huiying
off to boarding school. The house grew even quieter.

Yanli  began  to  suffer  from  constipation.  She  sat  in  the  bathroom  for
several hours each day. That was the only place where it was all right to do
nothing,  say  nothing,  think  nothing.  The  rest  of  the  time  she  also  did
nothing,  said  nothing,  and  thought  nothing,  but  she  always  felt  a  little

uneasy about it. Only in the day-lit bathroom could she settle down and feel
rooted. Yanli bent her head and stared at her own snow-white stomach, that
stretch of pure gleaming white. Sometimes she stuck it out; sometimes she
sucked it in. Her navel also changed its appearance: now it was the eye of a
Greek  statue—sweet,  clean,  expressionless—while  the  next  instant  it
protruded  angrily,  like  the  eye  of  a  pagan  god,  an  eye  with  an  evil  little
smile but adorable even so, with crow’s-feet tucked away in the corners.

Zhenbao  took  Yanli  to  the  doctor  and  bought  her  medicine  as
recommended  by  newspaper  advertisements.  Eventually,  however,  he
decided that she wasn’t all that concerned—she seemed to want to hang on
to  her  little  ailment  as  if  it  contributed  to  her  importance.  He  stopped
worrying about it.

One  day,  he  had  a  business  lunch.  It  was  the  plum-rain  season,  and
before  he’d left  the  office the  rain  started.  He  hailed  a rickshaw  and went
around  to  his  house  to  fetch  his  raincoat.  On  the  way  he  couldn’t  help
remembering  that  other  time,  when  he  was  living  at  Jiaorui’s  place,  when
the weather had changed and he’d dashed back in the rain to get his raincoat
—that very memorable day. He climbed out of the rickshaw and went in the
front door, wrapped in the faint melancholy of his memories, but when he
looked  he  saw  that  the  raincoat  wasn’t  in  the  closet.  His  heart  thumped
hard, and it seemed that events of a decade ago had come to life again. He
walked  toward  the  living  room,  his  heart  still  pounding.  He  had  a  strange
sense  of  destiny.  His  hand  was  on  the  doorknob  to  the  living  room,  he
opened it, and Yanli was in the room, along with a tailor who was standing
at the end of the sofa. Everything was as usual, and Zhenbao relaxed. Then
suddenly he grew tense again. He felt nervous—no doubt because the two
other people in the room were nervous too.

“Are you having lunch at home?” Yanli asked.
“No, I came back for my raincoat.”
He looked at the tailor’s bundle on the chair, not a trace of moisture on
it. It had been raining steadily for at least an hour. The tailor wasn’t wearing
galoshes. The tailor, when Zhenbao looked at him, seemed a little shaken;
he went over to his bundle, pulled out a measuring tape, and started to take
Yanli’s measurements.

Yanli’s  hand  gestured  weakly  at  Zhenbao.  She  said,  “Your  raincoat’s
hanging in the kitchen hallway to dry.” She looked as if she meant to push

the tailor away and fetch the raincoat herself, but she didn’t move. She just
stood there while the tailor busied himself about her measurements.

Zhenbao  knew  that  when  you  touch  a  woman  in  front  of  others  after
sleeping  with  her,  there’s  a  change  in  your  manner—no  mistaking  it.  He
looked  at  them  both  with  a  cold,  clear  eye.  The  great  white  mouth  of  the
rainy  day  sucked  at  the  window.  Outside  was  nothing  but  cold  disarray;
inside  everything  was  sealed  off.  There  was  an  intense  intimacy  between
those three people enclosed in that single room.

Zhenbao  stood  high  above  it  all,  distantly  observing  the  two
inexperienced  adulterers.  He  couldn’t  understand.  How  could  she  choose
such  a  person?  Although  the  tailor  was  young,  his  back  was  already  a  bit
bent. His face was sallow and there were ringworm scars on his scalp. He
looked like what he was: a tailor.

Zhenbao  went  to  get  his  raincoat  and  put  it  on,  buttoning  it  up  as  he

walked back to the living room. The tailor was gone.

“Don’t  know  when  I’ll  be  back,”  Zhenbao  said  to  Yanli.  “Don’t  wait

supper.”

Yanli  approached  him  deferentially  and  nodded.  She  seemed  to  be
upset. Her hands wandered around, finding no place to rest but anxious to
be doing something. She flipped on the radio. Time for the Mandarin news
broadcast  again—the  voice  of  another  man  filled  the  room.  Zhenbao  felt
there was no need for him to speak, so he turned and left, still buttoning his
coat. He had no idea that his coat had so many buttons.

The  door  to  the  living  room  was  wide  open,  and  the  candid,
straightforward  man  on  the  radio  went  on  talking  confidently:  he  was
always right. Zhenbao thought: “I’ve been pretty good to her! I don’t love
her, but there’s nothing I owe her an apology for. I haven’t treated her badly.
Such a lowly little thing! Probably she knows she’s nothing—she wants to
find  someone  even  lower  than  she  is  if  only  for  comfort’s  sake.  But  I’ve
been so good to her, so good!”

Back  in  the  room,  Yanli  must  have  felt  less  than  sure  of  herself:  she
turned off the radio with a pop. Standing in the entryway, Zhenbao suddenly
felt  himself  choking  up.  If  the  man  in  the  radio  station,  who  went  on
discoursing so fluently, had sensed that his entire audience had all at once
shut  him  off,  he  would  have  known  what  Zhenbao  felt—an  abrupt
blockage, emptiness petrifying the gut. Zhenbao stood on the front steps of
his  house,  facing  the  rainy  street,  until  a  rickshaw  came  by  looking  for

customers.  He  got  in  without  bothering  to  haggle  over  the  fare  and  was
pulled away.

When he came home that evening, the steps were under a foot of water.
In  the  dark  and  the  wet  the  house  looked  very  different—appropriately
enough, he felt. But when he went indoors the hot stifling smell and the line
of  yellow  lamps  leading  upstairs  were  as  before:  the  house  was  still  the
house; nothing had changed.

At the front door, he removed his shoes and socks, which were soaked
through,  gave  them  to  the  maidservant,  and  climbed  barefoot  to  the
bedroom  upstairs.  He  reached  out  to  flip  the  switch  and  saw  that  the
bathroom light was on. When he looked through the half-opened door, the
bathroom  resembled  a  narrow  hanging  scroll  in  faded  yellow-white.  The
light made Yanli her own faded yellow color. But never in dynastic history
has a painting of a pretty woman taken up such an awkward subject: Yanli
was pulling up her pants. She was bent over, about to stand up, and her hair
hung down over her face. She had already changed into her flowered white
pajama top, which was bunched high up on her chest, half caught under her
chin.  The  pajama  pants  lay  piled  around  her  feet,  and  her  long  body
wavered  over  them  like  a  white  silkworm.  In  America,  the  scene  would
have made an excellent toilet-paper advertisement, but to Zhenbao’s hasty
glance  it  was  household  filth,  like  a  matted  wad  of  hair  on  a  rainy  day—
damp and giving off a stagnant, stifling, human scent.

He  turned  the  light  on  in  the  bedroom.  When  Yanli  saw  that  he  had

returned, she hurriedly asked, “Did you get your feet wet?”

“I’m going to soak them right away,” Zhenbao responded.
“I’ll be right out,” said Yanli. “I’ll tell Amah Yu to go heat some water.”
“She’s doing it now.”
Yanli washed her hands and came out, and Amah Yu brought the kettle
up. Zhenbao sneezed. “You’ve caught a cold!” said Amah Yu. “Don’t you
want to close the door?”

Zhenbao  closed  the  door  and  was  alone  in  the  bathroom,  the  rain  still

falling hard, clattering on the windowpanes.

There was some sort of potted plant in the bathtub. It had flowers of a
tender yellow, and even though it hadn’t been out in the rain, it smelled as if
it had been. The foot basin was next to the flowerpot, and Zhenbao sat on
the edge of the bathtub, bending over to wash his feet, careful not to splash
hot  water  on  the  flowers.  When  he  bent  his  head,  he  caught  a  whiff  of  a

light, clean scent. He put one leg over the other knee, carefully wiped each
toe  dry  with  a  towel,  and  suddenly  was  overcome  with  tenderness  for
himself. He looked at his own flesh, and it was if someone else was doing
the  looking—a  lover,  full  of  grief  because  Zhenbao  was  throwing  himself
away for nothing.

He shuffled on some slippers and stood at the window looking out. The
rain had already tapered off and was gradually coming to a stop. The street
was now a river; mirrored in the waves, the streetlamps were like a string of
silver  arrowheads  that  shot  by,  then  disappeared.  Vehicles  thumped  past,
and  behind  each  one  a  brilliant  white  wake  unfurled  like  a  peacock’s  tail,
washing  across  the  reflections  of  the  streedamps.  Slowly  the  white
peacock’s tail sent out golden stars, then lengthened and faded away. When
the vehicle was gone, the white-gold arrowheads returned, shooting across
the turbid yellow river and disappearing, shooting by, then gone.

Pressing his hand against the windowpane, Zhenbao was keenly aware
of his own hand, his own breath, deeply grieving. He thought of the bottle
of  brandy  in  the  cabinet.  He  got  it  down,  poured  himself  a  full  glass,  and
stood looking out the window as he sipped.

Yanli  walked  up  behind  him  and  said,  “That’s  a  good  idea—having  a

glass of brandy to warm your stomach. Otherwise, you’ll catch a cold.”

The warm brandy went straight to his head; his eyes grew hard and hot.
He  turned  and  looked  at  her  with  loathing.  He  hated  that  kind  of  tedious,
polite small talk, and what he especially hated was this: that she seemed to
be peering at him behind his back, trying to find out how much he knew.

In the following two weeks Yanli kept peering. Apparently she felt that
he  hadn’t  changed  in  any  way—that  he  wasn’t  suspicious  of  her—and  in
time she relaxed and forgot that she’d had something to hide. Zhenbao was
befuddled: now it seemed that she didn’t have a secret after all. It was like
two  white  doors,  tightly  shut,  flanked  by  a  pair  of  flickering  lamps  on  a
wild  plain  at  night:  you  pound  at  them  with  all  your  might,  absolutely
convinced that a murder is taking place inside. But when the doors open to
admit you, there’s no such thing. There’s not even a building. All you can
see, under a few stars, is empty mist and tangled weeds. Now that was truly
frightening.

Zhenbao started  drinking  a lot, openly  consorting  with  women outside
the house. It was not at all like before, when he retained some scruples. He
came  home  reeking  of  drink,  or  he  didn’t  come  home  at  all,  but  Yanli

always had an excuse, saying that he had a lot of new social obligations for
his  company  that  he  couldn’t  refuse.  She  would  never  admit  that  it  had
anything to do with her. She kept on explaining it away to herself, and when
his dissipation gradually got to the point where it couldn’t be concealed, she
explained  it  away  to  others  too,  smiling  slightly,  loyally  covering  up  for
him. Zhenbao was running wild—almost to the point of bringing prostitutes
home  with  him—but  everyone  still  thought  of  him  as  a  fine  upstanding
man, a good man.

For a month it rained constantly. One day, the old maidservant said that
Zhenbao’s woven silk shirt had shrunk in the wash and needed to be let out.
Sitting on the bed with his shoes off, Zhenbao casually remarked, “Get the
tailor to come and fix it.”

“The  tailor  hasn’t  come  in  a  long  time,”  said  Amah  Yu.  “I  wonder  if

he’s gone back to his hometown.”

“Eh?” said Zhenbao, to himself. “Broken off as easily as that? Not a bit

of real feeling—how dirty, how petty!”

“Really?”  he  asked.  “Didn’t  he  come  to  collect  his  bill  at  Dragonboat

Festival?”

“His apprentice came,” said Amah Yu.
This Amah Yu had been with them for three years. She folded up some
underpants and put them on the edge of the bed, with a light pat. She didn’t
look  at  him,  but  the  smile  on  her  gentle  old  face  was  meant  to  be
comforting. Zhenbao was filled with anger.

That  afternoon  he  took  a  woman  out  for  a  good  time,  and  purposely
went around to his house for some money. The woman sat waiting for him
in the pedicab. The sky had just cleared and the water on the street had not
yet receded; great clumps of parasol trees shone in the yellow river. Across
the  street,  there  was  a  bluish  haze  on  the  green  trees  around  the  little  red
houses; damp yellow smoke came out of the chimneys and flew off at a low
angle. Zhenbao returned with the money, smacked his umbrella down, and
splashed water all over the girl. She cried out sharply. Zhenbao climbed into
the  pedicab  laughing,  full  of  wet,  muddy  happiness.  He  looked  at  the
upstairs  window. It  must have been Yanli standing  there, but  what he saw
was a tea-tray lace doily, yellowing with age, stuck on the bathroom wall—
or maybe it was a little white saucer with a tea-stain splotch in the center.
Zhenbao smacked his umbrella into the water again. Break it to bits! Break
it to bits!

He couldn’t smash up the home he’d made, or his wife, or his daughter,
but  he  could  smash  himself  up,  the  umbrella  whacking  the  water  and  the
cold, rank mud flying into his face. Again he was filled with tender sorrow
for himself, a lover’s sorrow, but at the same time a strong-willed self stood
opposite the lover, pulling and pushing and fighting with her. He had to be
smashed to bits! Smash him to bits!

The  pedicab  drove  through  the  rippling  water,  and  the  water  splashed
the  woman’s  clothes  and  her  leather  shoes  and  leather  handbag.  She
complained,  wanting  him  to  pay  for  the  damage.  Zhenbao  laughed,  threw
one arm around her, and kept on splashing the water.

After  this,  even  Yanli  ran  out  of  excuses.  Zhenbao  didn’t  bring  back
money  for  the  family,  his  daughter’s  tuition  went  unpaid,  and  the  daily
groceries  were  a  problem  too.  At  that  point,  Yanli  became  a  brave  little
wife.  Suddenly,  at  the  age  of  nearly  thirty,  she  had  grown  up.  She  spoke
fluently  and  compellingly,  in  tearful,  eloquent  complaints:  “How  ever  can
we  go  on  like  this?  It’s  enough  to  kill  me—the  whole  family  depends  on
him! At this rate he’ll lose his job at the factory… It’s as if he’s gone mad,
he doesn’t come home, and when he does he hits people and smashes things
up. He wasn’t like this before! Oh, Mr. Liu, can you imagine? Can you tell
me what I should do? How am I supposed to cope with this?”

All at once Yanli gained self-confidence. She had social status. She had
sympathy. She had friends. One night Zhenbao came back home to find her
sitting  in  the  living  room  talking  with  Dubao.  Of  course  they  were
discussing him, and when he appeared, she fell silent. She was dressed all
in  black,  and  though  the  wrinkles  on  her  worried  face  were  visible  in  the
lamplight,  she  still  had  an  aura  of  hidden  beauty.  Zhenbao  didn’t  rush
around  smashing  tables  and  lamps.  He  walked  in,  nodded  to  Dubao,  and
said a few words about the weather. He lit a cigarette and sat down casually
to discuss current events and the stock market. Finally he said he was tired
and  would  go  to  bed  early.  He  took  his  leave  of  them  and  headed  up  the
stairs. Yanli simply couldn’t understand what was happening—it looked as
if she’d been lying. It was all very hard to explain.

After  Dubao  left,  Zhenbao  heard  Yanli  entering  the  bedroom.  Right
when she came in the door, he swept the lamp and the hot-water thermos off
the little cabinet; they fell to the floor and cracked wide open, smashed to
bits. He bent down and picked up the metal base of the lamp, hurling it at
her, electrical cord and all. Turning,  she fled  from the  room.  Zhenbao felt

that  she  had  been  completely  defeated.  He  was  extremely  pleased  with
himself. He stood there laughing silently, the quiet laughter flowing out of
his eyes and spilling over his face like tears.

The old  maidservant  stood  in  the  doorway  gaping,  broom  and dustpan
in  hand.  Zhenbao  turned  the  light  off.  She  didn’t  dare  enter  the  room.
Zhenbao  fell  asleep  on  the  bed,  slept  through  to  the  middle  of  the  night,
when mosquito bites woke him. He rose and turned on the light. A pair of
Yanli’s embroidered slippers were lying in the middle of the floor at cross
angles, one a bit ahead, the other a bit behind, like a ghost that was afraid to
materialize,  walking  fearfully,  pleadingly  toward  him.  Zhenbao  sat  on  the
edge  of  the  bed  and  stared  for  a  long  time.  When  he  lay  down  again,  he
sighed. He could feel his old benevolent mood stealing over him bit by bit,
wrapping  itself  around  him.  Countless  worries  and  duties  and  mosquitoes
buzzed around him, stinging him and sucking at him.

The  next  day  Zhenbao  rose  and  reformed  his  ways.  He  made  a  fresh

start and went back to being a good man.

NOTES

PREFACE TO THE SECOND PRINTING OF

ROMANCES

though  “Legends,”  especially  with 

In  September  1944,  Eileen  Chang  collected  ten  stories  that  she  had
published in various magazines over the previous seventeen months, made a
few  revisions,  and  published  them  in  a  volume  entitled  Chuanqi  (usually
rendered  as  “Romances,” 
the
connotation  of  “urban  legends”  would  perhaps  convey  more  of  the  subtly
ironic  flavor).  The  first  printing  of  Romances  sold  out  in  just  a  few  days.
Chang  wrote  this  preface  for  the  second  printing,  which  was  otherwise
unchanged. Five of the six stories in the present collection come from that
edition.  The  sixth,  “Red  Rose,  White  Rose,”  was  published,  in  magazine
form, in the summer of 1944, but Chang revised the story quite extensively
before  she  included  it  in  the  1947  revised  and  expanded  edition  of

Romances.

1 “Hop-Hop” opera: An operatic style that originated in the rough rural
regions of Hebei Province and eventually merged with other styles to form
Ping Opera, a popular, middlebrow style enjoyed by many city dwellers. In
keeping with her deliberate emphasis on the genre’s earthy origins, Chang
chose (she had several options) the term bengbengxi, i.e., “Hop-Hop” opera.

2 Zhu Baoxia: A Ping Opera actress of some renown in the 1930s.
2 huqin: The general name  for  a class of traditional  string  instruments
which are held upright, played with a bow and fingers, and widely used for
folk music and theatrical accompaniment. The tone ranges from twangy to
haunting.

2 Third Daughter Li: A legendary heroine who (like Third Sister Wang)
perseveres through the hard times that ensue when a marriage that has been
ordained by fate nonetheless incurs the wrath of family members; the scene
in  which  Li  is  reunited  with  her  son  after  many  years  of  hardship  is
particularly famous.

4  the  painted-lady  type:  One  of  the  various  role  types  in  traditional
Chinese  drama;  the  huadan,  or  painted  lady,  is  a  charming  and  seductive
coquette (as opposed to the elegant and morally upright woman, the martial
arts heroine, the wicked maidservant, the old woman, etc.).

ALOESWOOD 

INCENSE:  THE  FIRST

BRAZIER

The title of this story refers to the fragrant shavings or dust of Aquilarai
agalloca. The Chinese  term, chenxiang, shares  a character  with  the  place-
name  “Hong  Kong”  (the  English  name  for  the  city  is  derived  from
Cantonese; in Mandarin Chinese, the city is called Xianggang). This story is
one of two broadly parallel tales, both set in Hong Kong, that Chang framed
with  this  incense-burning  device.  “Aloeswood  Incense:  The  Second
Burning” tells of a hapless middle-aged Englishman, a university professor
in  Hong  Kong,  who  is  taken  down  the  garden  path  by  some  fellow
expatriates—a mother-daughter pair.

8 Boxer-era courtesans: The particular courtesan mentioned here is the
legendary  Sai  Jinhua  (1874–1936),  whose  patrons  included  a  Chinese
ambassador  (with  whom she went to  Europe)  and then,  back in  Beijing,  a
German commander who helped to put down the Boxer Rebellion. She was

credited  with  persuading her foreign lover  not  to  sack the  Forbidden  City,
and so became a national heroine. Photographs of Sai Jinhua show her and
her courtesan colleagues in long, heavy tunics over trousers, a style of dress
that fashion-conscious girls in the 1930s and 1940s—especially those who
simply followed trends—would have found ponderously old and unstylish.
(Chang  herself  designed  and  wore,  to  great  acclaim,  an  outfit  that  was
loosely  inspired  by  the  old  Qing  tunic-and-trousers  combination.  Unlike
Weilong,  she  of  course  integrated  the  modern  touches  into  the  overall
design.)

13  playing  the  nurse:  In  traditional  Chinese  dramas  like  The  Peony
Pavilion  it  is  the  nursemaid  (much  like  Nurse  in  Romeo  and  Juliet)  who
aids and abets secret lovers’ trysts.

23  Pu  Songling’s  old  ghost  stories:  The  eighteenth-century  collection
known as Liaozhai zhiyi (Strange Tales from the Liao Studio). Many of the
stories  feature  fox  fairies,  ghostly  creatures  who  disguise  themselves  as
beautiful women and prey on men (in Pu’s morally complex universe, the
ghosts  may  make  stronger  claims  on  our  sympathy  than  the  humans  do).
Another common motif, as indicated here, is the grand home which in fact
is a tomb. Many of the dupes are young traveling students—male of course.
Chang  shared  Pu  Songling’s  inclination  toward  depicting  humans  as
morally weak or indecisive and, especially in her earliest stories, there are
glimmers of the fox fairy in many of her strong female characters.

23 Empress Cixi: The last matriarch of the Qing imperial family, famous
for  suppressing  all  attempts  at  modernization  and  reform,  and  for  lavish
spending on useless adornments.

27 “Dream of the Red Chamber”: The eighteenth-century classic novel
(Honglou meng;  also  known  as  The  Story  of  the  Stone)  that  is  one  of  the
most important influences on Chang, and on Chinese literature in general. It
describes  the  life  of  a  large,  wealthy  family  and  their  servants,  and  the
central plot is a love story whose purposes include the exploration of subtle
emotions  and  a  survey  of 
the  effects  of  experience  on  young,
impressionable  minds.  The  relations  between  masters  and  servants  in
Madame  Liang’s  household  (and  in  the  Cao  household,  in  “The  Golden
Cangue”) are clearly modeled on the semifeudal social order that is detailed
in this massive (120-chapter) and much-loved novel.

37 “Secrets of the Qing Palace”: Probably an invented title, insofar as it
refers  to  a  Hollywood  production.  (The  Chinese  phrase  that  Chang  uses

here, Qinggong mishi,  has  appeared,  in  recent  decades,  as  a  Chinese  film
title.)

45 “Burmese Nights”: Apparently an invented song title, though it may
refer to “I’m on My Way to Mandalay,” a popular song written in 1913 by
Alfred Bryan and Fred Fisher. The concluding verse runs thus: “I’m on my
way  to  Mandalay Beneath  the  shelt’ring  palms I  want to  stray Oh, let me
live  and  love  for  aye  On  that  Island  far  away  I’m  sentimental  for  my
Oriental love, so sweet and gentle That’s why I’m on my way to Mandalay
I’ve come to say ‘Goodbye.’ ”

JASMINE TEA

88  “Early  Tide”  magazine:  The  title  suggests  a  progressive  literary-
intellectual  magazine  of  the  type  that  flourished  during  the  New  Culture
Movement  (May  Fourth  Movement)  of  the  1920s.  The  tutor’s  seemingly
offhand  inscription  would  in  fact  be  understood  as  quite  daring,  given  the
magazine’s association with progressive ferment of all kinds, including the
notion of freely chosen romantic partners.

89 the faint shapes of tiny bats: Bats are a traditional good-luck symbol,
based  on  a  punning  association  between  the  words  for  “bat”  and  “good
fortune.”

LOVE IN A FALLEN CITY

111  huqin:  See  third  note  to  “Preface  to  the  Second  Printing  of

Romances,” above.

166  Facing  life,  death,  distance:  A  line  from  the  third  stanza  of  the
thirty-first  poem  in  The  Book  of  Songs  (composed  between  the  fifth  and
tenth centuries BC); the poem’s fourth stanza implies that the lovers’ vow
to remain faithful across time and distance was not kept.

167 Those  legendary  beauties  who  felled  cities  and  kingdoms:  A  city-
toppling woman, in ancient military strategy, is a beautiful woman who is
sent  to  a  rival  in  order  to  distract  him  from  his  city’s  defense.  It  later
became a poetic compliment, roughly equivalent to “a devastating beauty.”

THE GOLDEN CANGUE

The  footnotes  in  the  text  of  this  story  are  reproduced  from  Modern
Chinese  Stories  and  Novellas:  1919–1949  (Columbia  University  Press,
1981), from which Chang’s translation is here reprinted.

195 At least our Master Pai’s studies could bear checking into: Chang’s
Chinese  text  makes  it  clearer  that  Ch’i-ch’iao  is  not  so  much  inviting
scrutiny  of  her  son’s  studies  as  taking  comfort  in  the  notion  (her  notion,
anyway)  that he will be subjected  only  to  cursory  examination,  due to  his
recent  bereavement.  In  other  words,  his  studies  can  “bear  checking  into”
because the checking won’t be very rigorous.

225 where  should  the  mother  and  brother  look:  Chang’s  Chinese  text
makes  it  clearer  that  the  mother  and  son  would  be  embarrassed  (eyes
casting  about,  at  a  loss  for  where  to  look),  though  they’d  no  doubt  be
looking for someone to blame as well.

SEALED OFF

235  The  military  situation  that  creates  this  interlude  is  presented  very
obliquely;  all  that  we  know  is  that  the  authorities  have  shut  down,  or
cordoned  off,  all  or  part  of  the  city.  The  authorities,  in  this  case,  are
probably  the  Japanese  occupiers  or  (more  likely)  the  Chinese  puppet
government  that  answered  to  them.  Chang  made  a  point  of  never  directly
referring to the political or military situation in Shanghai prior to the defeat
of  the  Japanese,  and  thus  she  usually  escaped  censorship  and  was  never
thrown  in  prison  (as  did  befall  those  of  her  associates  who  took  a  more
aggressive stance).

240 the  Cosmo:  Da  shijie  (a  more  literal  translation  would  be  “Great
World”);  a  six-story  entertainment  palace  filled  with  performance  venues,
food shops, and cinemas.

RED ROSE, WHITE ROSE
255  “moonlight  in  front  of  my  bed”:  The  first  line  of  a  Li  Po  poem
known to every schoolchild in China; the moonlight makes the poet think of
his distant, beloved home.

256 peach blossom fan: The title of and central device in an eighteenth-
century  (Qing  dynasty)  play  by  Kong  Shangran;  in  the  play,  a  patriotic
beauty  remains  faithful  to  her  missing  husband—thought  by  some  to  be
dead, so that she is in some sense a widow—even when she is attacked by
evildoers  who  want  her  to  marry  a  traitorous  official.  As  a  result  of  the
struggle, she sustains a serious head injury, and bleeds onto a white fan on
which her beloved had written a wedding poem. A friend later paints some
stems  and  leaves  onto  the  fan,  converting  the  bloodstains  into  peach
blossoms.

262 Liu  Xiahui:  a  sage  of  the  Spring  and  Autumn  Period  (roughly  the
same  era  as  Confucius),  famous  for  his  calm  indifference  to  sexual
provocation by a beautiful woman.

278 the Cosmo: See second note to “Sealed Off,” above.

1.  In  addition  to  the  memoir-essays  in  Liuyan  (Written  on  Water),
(Taipei:  Huangguan,  1968),  which  are  the  main  source  for  details  of
Chang’s early life, this introduction draws on memoirs by Hu Lancheng and
Ke  Ling,  and  also  on  critical  studies  by  Fu  Lei  and  C.  T.  Hsia.  Readers
interested  in  further  analysis  of  Chang’s  place  in  modern  Chinese  culture
may  wish  to  consult  Rey  Chow’s  Woman  and  Chinese  Modernity
(University  of  Minnesota  Press,  1991)  and  Leo  Ou-fan  Lee’s  Shanghai
Modern (Harvard University Press, 1999).

 
1.  To-yün  Hsüan  (Solitary  Cloud  Studio)  was  famous  for  its  fine  red-

striped letter paper, popular down to the thirties.

2. Editor’s note: The repetition of the phrase “said, smiling” (hsiao tao)
may  seem  tire  some  to  the  reader.  However,  this  and  similar  phrases  are
routinely  prefixed  to  reported  speeches  in  traditional  Chinese  fiction,  and
Eileen  Chang,  a  dedicated  student  of  that  fiction,  has  deliberately  revived
their  use  in  her  early  stories.  It  is  to  be  regretted  that  their  English
equivalents cannot be equally unobtrusive.

3. On the lower Yangtze.
4.  The  old  phrase  ctü-ch’iao,  clever  seven,  refers  to  the  skill  of  the
Weaving Maid, a star that is reunited with the Cowherd, another star, across
the Milky Way every year on the seventh of the seventh moon.

5. Chiu-yeh, lit., Master Brother-in-law, in this case Ch’i-ch’iao’s elder

brother.

6. So called because the binding is rounded and narrow.
7. A toothpick, tweezers, and ear-spoon.
8. An idiomatic expression in Chinese.
9. Honorific for the son-in-law of the family.
10. Honorific for the married daughter of the house.
11. A familiar form of address, as to a child of the family.
12.  Literally,  “as  you  wish.”  An  odd-shaped  ornamental  piece,  usually

of jade.

13. The most valued kind of jadeite, translucent and dark green in color.
14. A short musical by Li Ching-hui, a most popular choice for school

productions during the twenties and thirties.

15. T’ien-nü san-hua (The celestial maiden scatters flowers) is the title
of a Peking opera made popular by Mei Lan-fang. It is based on an episode
from the Vimalakirti Sutra.

16. The inept heir of Liu Pei, founder of the Shu Han kingdom during

the Three Kingdoms period.

Table of Contents

Cover
About the Author
Title Page
Copyright Page
Dedication
CONTENTS
INTRODUCTION
PREFACE TO THE SECOND PRINTING OF ROMANCES
LOVE IN A FALLEN CITY

ALOESWOOD INCENSE
JASMINE TEA
LOVE IN A FALLEN CITY
THE GOLDEN CANGUE
SEALED OFF
RED ROSE, WHITE ROSE
NOTES

Footnote

INTRODUCTION

Page x
THE GOLDEN CANGUE
Page 171
Page 172
Page 173
Page 175
Page 178
Page 184
Page 189
Page 190
Page 194
Page 216
Page 219
Page 222

