LOVE IN A FALLEN CITY
SHANGHAI’S  clocks  were  set  an  hour  ahead  so  the  city  could  “save
daylight,” but the Bai family said: “We go by the old clock.” Ten o’clock to
them was eleven to everyone else. Their singing was behind the beat; they
couldn’t keep up with the huqin of life.

When the huqin wails on a night often thousand lamps, the bow slides
back  and  forth,  drawing  forth  a  tale  too  desolate  for  words—oh!  why  go
into it? The tale of the huqin should be performed by a radiant entertainer,
two long streaks of rouge pointing to her exquisite nose as she sings, as she
smiles,  covering  her  mouth  with  her  sleeve…  but  here  it  was  just  Fourth
Master  Bai  sunk  in  darkness,  sitting  alone  on  a  ramshackle  balcony  and
playing the huqin.

As he was playing, the doorbell rang downstairs. For the Bai household,
this was most unusual; people didn’t pay social calls after dark, not in the
old  etiquette.  If  a  visitor  came  at  night  or  a  telegram  arrived  without
warning, either it meant that some event of huge import had transpired or,
most probably, someone had died.

Fourth  Master  sat  still  and  listened,  but  since  Third  Master,  Third
Mistress, and Fourth Mistress were shouting all at once as they came up the
stairs,  he  couldn’t  understand  what  they  were  saying.  Sitting  in  the  room
behind  the  balcony  were  Sixth  Young  Lady,  Seventh  Young  Lady,  and
Eighth Young Lady, along with the Third and Fourth Masters’ children, all
growing  increasingly  anxious.  From  where  Fourth  Master  sat  on  the
darkened balcony, he could see everything in the well-lit room. So when the
door opened, there was Third Master in his undershirt and shorts, standing
on  the  raised  doorsill  with  his  legs  stuck  out  wide,  reaching  behind  his
thighs  to  slap  at  the  mosquitoes,  and  calling  out  to  Fourth  Master:  “Hey,
Old Four, guess what? That fellow that Sixth Sister left, well, it seems he’s
caught pneumonia and died!”

Fourth  Master  put  down  the  huqin  and  walked  into  the  room.  “Who

brought the news?” he asked.

